6M}:

FILED

Department of Professional Regulation

AGENCY CLERK
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

BOARD OF MEDICINE 5/ Q
459$ (gn7€__.ﬂr

 

 

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL CLERK..—
REGULATION, 8 7,0
D L“
Petitioner, ATE
—VS— DPR CASE NUMBER: 0100040

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0026676
Michael S. Drucker, M.D.,

Respondent.

FINAL ORDER

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on August 3,
1990, in Jacksonville, Florida, for consideration of a
Stipulation (attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between
the parties in the above-styled case. Upon consideration of the
Stipulation, the dccuments submitted in support thereof,r the
arguments of the parties, and being otherwise advised in the
premises, the Board accepted the Stipulation proposed with the
following modifications, which modifications were accepted
without objection by the parties.

IT IS HEREBY CRDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulation as
submitted be and hereby ia approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein with the following:

1. In lieu of the introductory portion of Paragraph 4.f. of
the Stipulated Disposition, the following shall apply:

Respondent shall not practice except under the indirect

supervision of a physician fully licensed under Chapter
458 who has been approved by the Board or its Probation

Committee. Respondent shall cease practicing until a
monitoring physician has been approved by the Board,
the Probation Committee, or the Chair of the Probation
Committee. Respondent shall have the monitoring
physician with him at his first probation appearance
before the Probation Committee. Prior to approval of
the monitoring physician by the Committee, the
Respondent shall provide to the monitoring physician a
copy of the Administrative Complaint and Final Order
filed in this case. Failure of the Respondent or the
monitoring physician to appear at the scheduled
Probation Committee meeting shall constitute a
violation of the Board's Final Order. Prior to the
approval of the monitoring physician by the Committee,
Respondent shall submit to the Committee a current
curriculum vitae and a description of the current
practice from the proposed monitoring physician. Said
materials shall be received by the Board office no
later than fourteen days before Respondent's first
scheduled Probation appearance.

2. In Lieu of Paragraph 4.9. of the Stipulated Disposition

the following shall apply:

Respondent shall cease practicing medicine until such
time as a monitoring/supervising physician is approved.
The Board shall delegate to the Chairman of the
Probation Committee the authority to temgorarily
approve a monitoring/supervising physician. In order
to obtain this temporary approval, Respondent shall
submit to the Chairman of the Probation Committee the
name and curriculum vitae of the proposed
supervisory/monitoring physician. This information
shall be furnished to the Chairman of the Probation
Committee by way of the Board of Medicine staff no
later than forty eight hours after Respondent receives
the Final Order in this matter. This information may
be faxed to the Board of Medicine at (904) 487—9622, or
may be sent by overnight mail or hand delivery to the
Board of Medicine at Department of Professional
Regulation, Board of Medicine, 1940 North Monroe
Street, Suite 60Ir Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750. In
the event that Respondent obtains temporary approval of
the supervisory/monitoring physician, he may practice
until the Board's Probation Committee meets. Said
approval shall only remain in effect until the next
meeting of the Probation Committee. Absent said
apgrovg;L_Res ondent shall not ractice mediciné'until
a moritorinﬁZsuEérvisoEE Ehisician is aﬁﬁrovgd by the
Board's Probation Committee. However, such approval
shall remain in effect only until the next meeting of
the Probation Committee.

 

 

”-

___ _914 Report to the Bnufd any violations by Lho
probazldnor 0! Chapters 455 and 458. Florida SLaLutoa, and Lhe
rules p:omulgated pvrsunnt thereto.

9. Thb Boazd shall confer nuLhority on the
Chairman of the Board's rtohationer‘n Committee to temporarily
approve Ronpndtnt‘a monitoring phjnlclan. uoupondcnt shall
submit to the Chairman the name and curriculum vitae of the
proposed munitorlng physician in order to facilitate, oald
approval. Said approval shall only Lemaln in effect until the
next meeting of the Probationez‘l Committee. I

h. In view of the need for ongoing and continuous
monitoring or uupczvilicn, Respondent aha!) ulna submit the
curriculum vitae of an alternate mohttoring physician who shall
be approved by the Buard'a Probationot'a Committee. Such
physician nhall ha licenaed pursuant to Chapter 458. Florida
Statutes. and shall have the same dutieo and reaponaibilities as
speclllod for Respondent's monitoring physician, during those
periodo of time when Respondent's monitoring physician in
tcmporacliy unable to provide supervisinn. Prior to [masticing
undo: the indirert supervision of tho alternate monitoring
physician,' allpondutt ahaII no advise ﬁhe Board in writing.
neaﬁondent shill further advice the Board Ln writing or the
period 0! tin. auxinq which RespondenL shall practice under the
indirqct supervision of the altdcnute monitoring physician.

Respondent shall new practice unlean he in under the indirect

supervlltodrof'WIth0( tho approvnd nmhltnring physician or the
approved alternate. I

1. In Lho event that the Lecponﬁenr's monitoring
phyaiclan in unnbia or unwilling to fultltl his rcaponoibilitiea

an a mnnitoring 9hyulctnn, nu frencrihed above, then the
Ruapondont shall imnedlat—ly advise the Board of thlu fact.
Respondent shall further aubmit to thv Chairman [6: chm Board's
Probat!onor'u Committee the name or a temporary monitoring
physician for approval. Respondent shall not praatlcc pending
ahproval 0! this gamporary monitoring physician by the Chairman
0! the Probationcr'a Comnlttec. rhrthprmocc, Respondent shall
make arrangements With his tomp01nzy mnnltozing _phyi!clan to
appear before the Probatinner‘l Committee at its next regularly
scheduled meeting. for approvui of the manitoring physician by
the Committee. Reeyondent shall only practice ﬁnder éhc auspices
of the temporary mnnitoring phiaician (appxoved by the chairman)
until the next regularly aohcdulcd mcwtinq oﬁ uhn ProbuLioner's
Cdmmlhtoo wheruat the issue of the Committee's approval of the
Respondent's new manitorinq phylician shall be addressed.

3. Respondant shall aubmlt quarterly reports, in
aﬂfldavtt Iota. the contcnés at which shall he specifiﬂd by the
Board. Th5 reéort: shall include:

1. Erie: a:atement of why phytician 13 on

probation.

1:. Deocclption oi pracctce location.

fiﬁ“zj___ Elf. Daocribe curtont practice {type and

compositiénle

iv. Brio: otatemmnt of compliance with

probationary termu.

v. Dom‘rih- relationship with monltoring
physician.
vi. Advice Board of any probleml.

k. neaponddnt uhsll attend so houra o! Catlgcry I
eqntinulng Hcdlcal Education couraeo per year with thkrngItvo4'

hOuzn in the area of family practice. and tiltoon 'hou§i§ inm,;.“;H
recozdkoaplng and risk nmnaqement. Roapondent thl! luﬁiil I __

written plan to tho Probatlonor'n Committee fer approval pun: toE—f‘

completion of aalg course. Thoan hours shall be in aa¢ltlcﬁ to ‘

those hours raquirod lot renewal o! licensure.

l. nonpondcnt understands that during the course
of the probation, quarterly- reports shall be prepared by
Investigators with tho Department detailing Répondent's
compliance with the terms and conditions of this probation.
Respondent waives confidentiality of those reports an to the
Department only Io thlt the Board may review these reports.

, II. nilpondont shall comply with all of the terms
and ubndltlonl o! the Stipulation.
n. Renpondunt shall pexfoim 50 henna of community

service in a not-Eornproflt netting, Outside of thq physician's

office, per ycnr. Community service shall conuiné at medical

.51- . , .nm,‘- -._" “ﬂ...

servlcqggfthJE5figfjnr the good a! the people of Lhe State 0!
FloridgifLﬁaiiﬂhéaqi;shall submit a wrtLLan plan for performance
and comﬁliLién o: Ehe Community eotvlce Lo the Probacioner'a
Commxttoa for approval prior to tho pcctormnnce of said community
service. Affidavit” detailing the community aﬁrvico performed
shall be filed with :ho Board quarterly.

o. Roupondont agree: to tho lskuancn c! an
emergency aunpennlnn ordnr by the Secretary 0! the Bapnrtment
upon a finding of ruaaonnble/probable cause to beltevo that the

terms 0: this Stipulntlon, nu Incorporated by a Pinai Order, have

ﬁonn violated. . . _L-

13‘3"; run. -

p. Pcnpnndunt shall pay. all costs necessary to ; '

5;;5

comply with the terms of the rinnl Order Inaund baaeﬂ-on thin ”

Stipulation. Such couto include, but are not limitcﬂ to, the
coat ot proparntiqn m! investigative reports dera111ng compliance
with tho terms 0!. this Stipulation.

5. It {a bxpruauly understdod that thin Stipulation in

subject to the approval of tho Boa:d,and the Department. In this

regarding the loreqoing paragraphs (and only the toregoinq

paragraphs 0! xhe Stipulaved rnctn, Stipulated Canclusionu of Law
and Etipulltod Dlupomltlon) Ihnll have no £010. and act's: unlau:

a Finaiﬂ nldetx is entered incorpurnting the termu of this
ﬁt lpulattm; hr. the Hoard .

6. nonpondcnt shall appear before the Boanl at the

matting wheraat this Stipulation in cunaidcrod. Respondent, 1n

_ 10 _

imn‘nlo'

conjunct_lotl'_ iftlt'the conmdccatlon cf this Stipulation by tho
Board. lhll! ‘i'ilpmlld ho qucmzionl undo: oath from the Board.
Bdaxd Staff or DIpuerent Staff.

7. Should this Stipulatiun be rejected. no statement
made la furthnrance of thin Stipulnllnn by tho negpondﬂnt may be
used as direct evidence against the Respondent in any
proceeding. Howuver, each statvmonto m:y be used by the
Petitioner fox impenwhment purpoaaa.

8. Respondent and the Department fully underuhln a that
this joint Stipulati .on end uubuoquenh Plnnl Ordar 1n¢nrp¢tl£ln¢

same will in no way preclude adiltional pzocecdingl by tbt ihnrd.régag

and/or the DepaerenL against the. Reupondent to: act. o:‘E;§}1r

 
  

admissionn not spacirlcally not toiuh 1n the Adniuloﬁgatlv :_"E;f'
Complaint attached nu Exhibit '3' herein.

9. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation:
Respondent expressly watvco {11 tuttho: procaduzal steps, and
expreanly univea.nll rights to seek judicial rcvlcw'oﬂ o: to
otherwise challgnge o: canton: the validity or the joint

Stipulation 6! facts. cnnc‘lutinnu of law and impunition o!

dllclpllne, and tho Pinal Order of the Board incorporating said
Stlpulation. ‘ _
10. Eran the Board's adoption of this Stipulation. tho

panic: hplohg line that O‘HSC“ parLy ulllJmar Mu own attorney's
fail and cost. resulting from prusocutlen and/or dutense of this

procoading. Roopondant waives the right to neck any attorney's

-11..

_--*nnnm"z

- 2., . ‘ -.~.':.-~ a- -

fem: M‘ZMﬂﬂtc-Ib the Diu‘artmt-nt tn' compaction with this
d inc 1 pliﬁltyr ﬁiucucdinu .

I 11. Thin Htlpulnr.lon 1| cxecutad by the Respondent for
tho purpaaa oz evblding further administrattvq action with
respect to this cnuae. In this regard. Renpnndenﬁ authorizes the
Board to review and examine ali investigative £110 :nntnrialu
concerning nonpondcnt prior to or in conjunction with
consideration or tLo stipulation. Fuzthoruotc. ahquld this joint
Stipulation not be accepted by the Bond, :2 13 mum“? that.
grounutlon to Ind consideration or thin stipulation IIM'Q’IhIr

documents and mutton by tho_Boa‘.-d shall not unfur—lr' or

illegally pccjudlcn the Board or any 0! us membnrs (roe- guztherg} J

participation, canulderation or :eaolutlon of these proceedings.

“12-

31000 I Is"

.0:-

f ' -

”Emit! :51: "(ZIL— day of ,_,z}1z7c_____. 1990.
1” _ Laurence A. onzalez

Secretary

19»— ﬁg?

'ny“T. um .51? . n.mT—-—-
Chic! Atturney
H-dlcal Suction

APPROVED. a: upecifically authorized by Rucpondent,
Michael 5. Drucktr, M.D. this 6th day at July, 1990.

IM OE'PIQ': Cf BMUW 8. SIM?. ?.A.

(‘3 bu
)mw .

F}: Ir: . Elna?! .
Attornly (L; Reipondvn .
chhlul 3. Drucklr. ﬂ.D.
JJOO-Indu and-nt lqumro-
Jacknonvl 10. FL 32301
Florida But No. 1091b?
(904) 355-66‘4

  

7-11nr1ni q

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL PEGULATTON
BOARD OF MEDLCINB

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
vs. DPR CASE NO. 0100040
‘MICHAEL s. DRUCKER, 1-4.0.

Respnndent.

 

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT
COMES NOW the Petitionel, Department or Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as ”Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint hvlure Lhn Board of Medicine
against Michael S. hrurknr, M.U., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent,” and alleuwn:
l. _ Petitinner is th nlnrn agency Hharged with

regulating the praztice ut medivjne pursuant to Section 20.30,
Florida Statutes: ﬂhuplvl 4W5, Flnridn HluLuLnH; and Uhuplw: 45”,
Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all Limes material
hereto a licensed physician in the S1uLv oi Florida, having been
iSsued license numnnr ME nnﬂﬁhYL. Hmspnndenf's last knowﬁ
address is 8837 Goodbys Exmcutivv Drivé, Jacksonville, Florida
32217.

3. During the pPliHH January 1982 to May 1988,
Respondent was co—uwner nl rhn Hiwnriue NiLhdrawal Clinic

{hereinafter refer 0d Lu n5 "Clini"“): 2999 Hartley Road,

r|nrﬁn Io

Jacksonville, Florida 3221?, an establishment whose primary

purpose was to help Clients quit smoking. Durihg the period
January 1982 to on H: about December 1987, Renpondent's medical
practice was co-located with his Clinic and he examined each
patient admitted to his Clinic prior Lo enrolling them in his
quit—smoking program.

4. During an investigation of the Clinic on or about May

20, 1988, it was discovered that Reapondent had moved his medical

practice and no longer rnuLinely examined patients at the Clinic

and allowed patients tn ho ndminintprnd drugs and diapenaeﬁ drugs
hy.non-phyaician start acting under standing orderanand
protocols.

5. Respondent ceased examining patients at his Clinic on

or about December 1987 and established the following procedures

for patients at his Clinic.
6. When a patient arrives at the Clinic, the patient is

counseled by the other co-uwner, a licensed emergency medical

technician (EMT). Through this vnunsnling, a patient
questionnaire is CCmpleLed and the patient is asked to sign a
consent form.

7. If a patient reports any adverse physical
Characteristics, such as lung, kidney, or heart problems,
pregnancy, or are cn medication, the protocol requires that the
Respondent be contacted. Hpun receiving the adverse information

and the particular patient‘s difficulty, the Respondent would, if

necessary, then examine rhu anian.

" 000mg

B. After lllt' ([ul-ul innlmirte in HHIII.[III-.'L(.'f], a J'.PN ur' HN
administers two (2) cc's of thiamine hydrochloride via injection.
The patient is then provided two tablets of dolomite (calcium
magnesium), one tablet of thiamine, one tablespoon of Polycitra-K
(a prescription drug), and onn tablet of sodium bicarbonate.

9. The patient is then dispensed an envelope with
twenty-five (25) sodium bivarhnnale tablets, 100 count buttle ul
thiamine 8-1, a 1'10 unum. ImH In Hf Ilnlmnite am] twenty-five (2‘3)
individually sealed packets of Pulycitra-K‘

10. The bottles uf lh‘wminu and dolomite are uver—Lhn-
counter vitamins and are punknqnd hy the manufacturer, Mason.

11; The packets of PolyuiLra—K are prescribed items and
are sealed, labeled with the dncLur's name, patient‘a name, drug
name, strehgth, date and directions.

12. The sodium blvuuhnnnte tablets, however, are
dispensed in an ewvelnpn marked with rho diranions "take one
tablet with every Polycitra~K packet".

13. Inveszigatinn has revealed that Respondent purchased
the legend drug, ’olyciLra—K, which is used at Lhe faciliLy.

' COUNI_1
14. PetitLoner realleges and incurpurates paragraphs une
9 (1) through twelve (13) us if fulLy set forth herein.

-‘1&2 Reepondent prescribed, dispensed, administered,
supplied, Bold, gave, mixed, at otherwise prepared legend drugs,
inappropriately or in excessive or inappropriate quantities not
in the best interant. «:1 pm ir-nl:::, inr'lmling, but not. limited tn,

the following: Reapundent pregnribed excessive quantities of

.H. nq-‘i A y. -

Accordingly, the parties Shall adhere to and abide by the terms
and conditions of the Stipulation as amended.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of
theDepartment of Professional Regulation.

DONE AND ORDERED this ‘35 day Of , 1990.

 

BOARD OF M ICINE

"""--..
MARGARE%gC.S. SKINNER, M.D.

CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Michael S.
Srucker, M.D., 8837 Goodbys Executive Drive, Jacksonville,
Florida 32217, and Barry S. Sinoff, Attorney at Law, 3300
Independent Square, Jacksonvi;le, Florida 32202-5064, and by
interoffice delivery to Stephanie A. Daniel, Attorney at Law,

Department of Professional Regulation, 1940 North Monroe Street,

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, at or before 5:00 P.M., this

 

_35 _

Polycitra-K, to patients at the vliniu, without a medical history

and supporting labnratory data: and prior tn nn or about November
1987, Responhent compounded a legend drug by mixing lidocaihe
with thiamine to fnrm an inlnvrnhlu nuhstnnrn that was
administered to patients at the clinic.

16. Invest;gatinn has revealed Respondent stdpped mixing
lidocaine with thinminé after thv Fedoral Drug Administration

advised, on or about Nuvnmhur IOH7, lhul said mixture PUHSIiLthd

the compounding of a legend druq.
17. Based on the prncndinq allegations, Respondent

. violated Section 458.331(1)(q), Florida Statutes, in that he is
-guilty of ﬁrescribing, dispensing, administering, supplying,
selling, giving, mixing, or othurwisé preparing a Legend drug,
including all controlled SUhSLdHCQS, other than in the course vi
the physician's prcfessional practice. For the purpose of this
paragraph, it shall be Legally presumed that prescribing,
dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing legend
drugs, including all nontrnllnd thstnnrns, irn1pprnprintnly nr it
excessive or inappropriate quantities is not Ln the best interest

of the patient and is nut in Lhw nnurse of the physician's
professional practice, wi!hnu1 regard tn his intent.
CQUHT_II
18. Petitiower rnalleqes and incorporates paragraphs one

(1} through thirteen (l3) and paragraphs fifteen (15) and sixteen

(16) as if fully SPI fnrth hernin.
19. Respondent fhiLed to practice medicine wit1 that

level of care, ski]‘ and treatment whivh is recognized by a

.WAAA“ .

J

reasonably prudent similar phyHirinn n5 nunvplnhle urdur similar
conditions and circumstancns in that: Respondent prescribed
excessive quantities of Polyritra~K, a legend drug, without

proper examination of the patients.

20. Based on the prerndinq allegations, Respcndent
violated Section 458.33l(1)(l), Flnrida Statutﬁs, in that
Respondent is guiLLy of ULUHS n: repented malpractice or the
failure to practice medicine with that Level of care, skill and

treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar

physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and

circumstances.
COUNT 111

21. Petiti :nnr ruallvrym .mri incorporatns paragraphs; one
(1) through thirteen (13). paragraphs fifteen (15}, sixteen (16),
and nineteen (19) 15 if fully snt lorth herein.

22. Respondent failed tn keep written medical records
justifying the noursv of treéLmnnL of patients including, but not
limited to, the following: Rwsynndent's medical records do not
justify the prescription 0[ Pmlycttra—K, a legend drug; and
Respondent's medical records 4n not justify the prescription of
excessive quantities of Polycitra—K, without Laboratory work
adocumenting specific need for this supplement.

23. Based nn tho prawndinq allngatiuns, Respondent
violated Section 438.33l(l}(m), Florida Statutes, in.that
Respondent failed :0 keep writtvn medical records justifying the
course of treatmen' nf patinnts including, but nnt limited to,

patient histories, examinatinn rnsults and test results.

Anna..-

an. . . ..4 H..- v.5.

CQUHI_11

24. Petitinner realleges and incorporates paragraphs One
(1) through thirteen (13), fifLeen (15), sixteen (16), nineteen
(19).r and twenty—two (22) as it fully set forth herein.

25. Respondent aided, assisted, procured, or advised
unlicensed persons in the practirw of medicine contrary to
Chapter 459 or tu .I r1110 ml tht—e «ll':(_:.‘n'(ment 01' Lhu board,
including, but not 11mitud Ln the following: RespondenL
purchased Polycitra-K fur dispensLng by persons not qualified by
training or 1icensure to ﬂu so; and Respondeht's protocol directs

'dispensing of PolycitrauK, a legend drug, by persons not
qualified by licensure to do 50.

26. Based on the prevedtnq allegations, Respondent
violated Section 488.33](1)(1), Flnrida Statutes, in that he is
guilty of aiding, uﬁSiStng, pruuuring, 0r advising any
unlicensed person In pravtice medicine contrary Lo Chapter 458 or
to a rule of the department Hr (he hoard.

COUNT V

2?. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through thirteen (13), [iLLeen (16), sixteen (16), nineLeen
(19), twenty-two ($2) and LwenLy-live (25) as if fully set [oth

herein.

28. Responnent delegated professional responsibilities tn
6 person when the licensee deleaning shch responsibiliLies knows
or has reason to kIUW that suvh person is not qualified by
training, experiente, 0r linensure Lu perform them in that:

'Respondent purchased Polyvitra-H, a lngend drug, for dispensing

by persons not qualified by training nr licensure; and
Respondent's standings nrdvrn and protocol called for tho
dispensing 6f Polycitra—K, a legnnd drug, by persons not
qualified by training, experience, or licensure.

29. Based 7n the preceding allegations, Respondent

violated Section 458.331(1)(w), Florida Statutes, by delegating

professional resp01sihilirien tn n person whnn the licnnsee

delegating such reaponsihilitirﬁ knows or has reason to know that
such person is not qualifind by training, experience, nr

licensure to perform them.

CQUquMl

30. Petirianer realleqns and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through thirtiwrn (I l), l'iHr-rmt (1'3), sixtuuu (16), nineteen
(19), twenty-two (22), twenty—fiva (25) and twenty-eight (28) as
if fully set forth heréin.

31. Respondent failed tn supervise adequately the
activities of thosa physjvian's assistants, emergency medical
technicians, or aazanced reqiﬁ'mrﬁd nurse practitioners acting
under the Supervision of ehe physician by allnwing thpm tn
dispense Polycitra—K, a legend drug.

32. Based nn thn prnvndinq allegations, Rnspondnnl
vlolated-Sectlon 438.33l(1)(dd), Florida Statutes, by failing to
supervise adequateiy the nvLiviLies of those physician's
assistants, emergency modiva] torhnicians, or advanced registered
nurse practitioner; acting nndvr the supervision of the

Respondent.

“Jnnnau’

COUNT_Y11
33.

Petitioner rnuileges and incorporates paragraphs one

I."

(1) through thirteen (13) an if fully set forth herein.

34. Respondent failed Ln perform any statutory or legal
obligation placed upon a licenaud phyﬁiuian by misbranding the
sodium bicarbonate by fntlinq tn label the package with [hp name

and place of business of the manufacturer, repackager, or

distributor thereby viulatinq Suutlun 499.007(2)(a), Flurida
Statutes.
35. Based rn the prenuding allegations, Respondent

violated Section 458.331(1)(g), in that he

Florida Statutes,
failed to perform any statutory or legal obligation placed upon a
licensed physician hy vinlnting Hectton 499.007(2)(n), Flnrida
Statutes.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board
of Medicine enter an Otder imposing une or more of the following
penalties: revuuaLiun or suspension uf the Respondent's license,
restriction ot LIN..- Huspundr-nl-‘u practice, ilupusitiunml an
administrative finu, issuance ur a reprimand, placement 0L the
Respondent on ﬁruhatiou, ﬂHd/UL nuy other relief that the Board
deems appropriate.

SIGNED this .QL-ﬂ; rlay mi 1989.

Larry Gonzalez

 

F g " :l. fluvretarry .
Cr'*r“‘.""- " " l' .‘ I: '\ M .(
r. 7 .’ ‘ I
.t‘; __.-... .1”.ng ____
,VV {2 :1 My: Stephanie‘A. Daniel
1-5 1' \- - Chief Attorney
?.j' 3 Medical Section
{. " - “- .—.-
0.5% ____~____ #-

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Don A. Hyman

Senior Attorney

Department of Professional

‘ Regulation

Northwood Centre

1940 North Monroe Htrept,
Suite 60

Tallahassee, Florida
32399-0792

(9 ) 438—0062
gziékBs/AL

7/12/89

 

FLORIDA BOARD OF MEDICINE

mo Nonh Monroe 5m

Tulm'ussec, Raid: 3mm

Telephone (934) 488-6695

Qmmmm
Zachariah P. ham MD.

Fort Lnudadde, Florida

MERE:
Fund 5. Ashlur. MD.
Miami. Haﬁd:

lures N. Burl. MD.
Iadﬁonvﬂle, Florida

Pamela A. M. Campbell. Bq.
SI. Pdmbmg, Florida

Richard lune; Cavalhm, M.D.

Naples. Floridl

Edward A. Dimer. MD.
Fort hudsrdalc, Horidn

Mm; Kathryn Cure“. MD.
Orlando, Fluid:

John w. modary, MD.
Lakehnd, Hand.

Manning I-L Hunh‘ne, 1:. MD.
Fermenla. Florid-

Gerard. A. Kaiser, MD.
Mhnd, ﬂorid:

Richard McEwcn
Tlihhame, Floridz

Louis C Mumy, MD.
Orlando, Florida

Gilbert M Rodriguez
Tampa. Floﬁdz

Margaret S. Skinner, MD.
West Palm Beld‘l. Haida

Gary E Winchatcr MD.
Tallahassee, Raid:

mmmn.mem

 

FILED

Wartment of Professional Reemamn
(AGENCY CLERK

FLORIDA BOARD OF MEDICINE

 

 

 

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION ”“3123?“
—_——— GeorchJuan

Smmry

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,
PETITIONER

DPR CASE NO. 0100040

V.

Michael S. Drucker, M.D.

RESPONDENT

ORDER OF TERMINATION

Upon review of the terms and conditions of the Final
Order of the Board of Medicine rendered August 16, 1990
the documentation offered on behalf of Respondent, and
being otherwise fully advised in the premises, it is
hereby ORDERED AND ADJUDGED:

That Respondent completed his period of probation on
August 15,1992 and has complied with all terms of the

Final Order rendered A ust 16, 1990. DONE AND ORDERED
this [3” day of ﬂgaﬂr’ , 1992.

CARD OF MEDICINE

11
/ fﬁ—
Zachariah P. Zachariah, M.D.,

Chairperson
Board of Medicine

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Final Order has been provided by certified mail
to Michael S. Drucker, M.D., 8837 Goodbys Executive Dr.,

J nville, F 322 or before 5 p.m. of this
i day of

1992.
53%

, Board of Medialne

    
   
   

Executive Direct

CLERKﬁ

DATEW

.1:

Dn ISION OF MEDICAL QUALITY ASSURANCE
NORHMOOD CENTRE - 1940 NORTH MONROE STRET - T&wum Fiorum 3239940770

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION 0? ADHINISTHATLVE nnhhruus

DBPARTﬂIH! or FRﬂ?H$510th
nzcuxnrxou.

PoLitloner,
DOA” CHEF. NO. 80-6958
v. NPR CASE NO. 0100040

MICHAEL B. DRUCIEH. N.Do‘.

Respondent.

 

EEEE'HIERE.

Michael S. Inuckor, the Respondent. n10 the prartmcnt
6f Professional Rojulatlon, rotnrgod to as Department. nLiﬁulato
odd agree to the Eullowing joint Stipulatlou and to the entry of
a Final Order of the Buard n: Modiviho, referred to as Board.
incnrporating thlﬁ Stlpulntion and the agroement'ln this matter.

§___ [PULNPED FACTS

 

 

1. At :11 times mageriel hereto, Reapgndert was a
licensed physician h\ thu State of Florida hvvihg behn icnund
license number ME_0025676.

2. Raepondunt was charged by an Administrative
Complaint filed by the Department and prepnriy oorund upou
Respondent with vlulltiqns of Chapter 450, Flmrldn Statutes, and
the rules anicted puroubnt thereto. A true and correct copy of
the AdninlattatLVQ Coupla$nt la attachoﬁ hereto and incorpoyated
by reference as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nn‘ denies the

“Hanna-“

allogthmﬁpﬁ taut. cnni-ah.nd in tho f-dminin-Lrntlvn :‘nmpIaiht
attached hnt-ta ht Exhibit

ﬁ'illﬂhlftELQ? “:lél' 3.1 9 “Mlﬁiﬁ‘i
1. Respundcnt, in hia capacity as a Ilccnsed
phyniciun. admits that in 1JCh capanlty he is subject to the
provin Luna 0! Chapters 45 5 and 433. Florida Statuteu, ané the

jurladlction of the Department and the Board.

2. Resgundent admits that the facts nut forth in the
Administrative Complaint, 1r proven, constitute violations 0!
Chapter 458. ?10:1dn Steauttn. an alleged in tho Adninlntrativc:
IComplnint.

:=T£vurhzlu 91390"1110N

—.——- u-__—. ___.—-.-———c—.-

1. Recpandent shall not in the Eutura violate Chtptetl~

 

455. 453 and 893, Florida Statutes. or thn tales promulgated
purluant Lhnrcto.

2. The 30016 cha31,1mpnac an administrative tine in
the amount of $5,003.00 aja}nnt the ﬁeqpnndcnt. The fine shall
be paid by the Retpnndont to the Bgecutive Dirtanr ol the Board
within one year at the imposition by Fina: Order of the Board.

3. Thu Respondent shall runeive a reprimand from the
apard of Medicine.

‘. Eﬁfeotlvo 0% the data of the fliing of the Final
Drag} incorporating the hﬁrmn or thfr Stipuiution, Respondent's
license to practice medicine shall be placed on probation for a

period of two ynara. The terms and conditions rf probation shall

- 2 -

hnnnnﬁ

'nn. - .. .53.. . . ,,

include:

a. Reapundvnt uhall ccmpiy with :11 state and
Eudornl statutes, ruins and regulationn pertaining to the
practice 0: moiiclho, incluﬂlnq Chaptorn 455, 453 and 093,
Florida Statutes, and Ruleq 21 N, Florida Adm1n£srratlve Code.

b. kcnpondnnt shall appvar betorc tho Hoard or its
designated probationar'a committee at the first meeting after
said probation conmrnaea; aL Lhu lust meoLlnq of thm Board's
designated prabatlnnar'n cnmmltLao prncadlng Lulmlnntinh oi the
brobation. and at such QLhor times as requested by tho Baird's
pfobatloner’n committee. Failure <4. Respondent to appear as
requested or dlr-zntzd Mall bu considered a vlc-latlun o! the
tcrma of this StipuLaLiun. and shall subjecL the Respandent to
disciplinary action.

a. In the evont_thc Renyondent Jenvéa the State or
Florida for a period of thirty days or more or otherwiaé does not
engage in tho outlvu pinctlcc 9f medicine in the State of
Florida, than certain prowlolonn o! Reapundent'a probation (and
only those provislcns or thn probation} aha)! 'bo tolled a9

enumerated below and shall :emain In a tolled status until

Reurondlht returnn to athvo practice in the State of Florida.

Respondent mutt Reap current residence and business addresses on

tllé with tho Board” Reoyondont shaEl'notlfy the Board within

tﬁn (10) days of any changes of said addresses. Furthermore,

Respondent nhall notify the Board within ten (10! days in the'

ﬂﬂﬁnn:

event that Relpanannt leaveu the actzvc practice or medicine in

Floridt. '"

d. In the uncut that nenpordnnt leaves the active
practlce of medicine in thia whato 10: a purioﬂ a: thirty days or
morn, the following provintons of his probation “hall be tolled:

!. The time pegicd or probation shall be
tolled.

11. The provisions regarding supervision
whether direct or indlréct by anothur phgnininn. inuluQOG in
paragraph 1 below.

' ii!. The provtulona regarding preparation of
investigative rupwrta detailing compliance with this stipulation
shall be tolled. Sen paragraph 1 below.

iv. The community service requlronontc
dctallud in paragraph m below shall be tolled.

e. In the event that Roapondent leaves the active
practice of medicinu £0: a period of unc y‘au or Imare, the
Probationera' Committee may require Rospondont to appear before
the Probationorl' Commlutoe and demonntretc hil abilty to
practice medicine wlth skill and safety to paLIentl prior to
resuming the practice of medicine in tha Stutn.

‘ t. Reapundont shall not practice except under the
indirnct lugczvlaion o! a phyalclan fully licensed under Chapter
458. Florida Stntnna, apprmvod by thé Board's Probationcc's

Committee. ﬁespnndcnt shall have the monitoring physician with

him ar' hifi lttnb probation appearance before the Board'-
Probatloﬁéf';j‘ébﬁmitteo. Prio: to approval er the monitoring
phyllclan by tho Cwmmlttoc, Lha nonpondont aha]! provide to the
monitoring physiclan a copy of the hdmlntatrntlvc CompIalnt and
Final Order tiled in thin caeu. A failure of the nonpondent o:
the monitoring physician to appear at the scheduled probation
committee quoting "tall uonstﬂtute :1 v1o1atbm1 of the Board‘s
Final Order. Prior to tho epprOVQI of the monitoring physician
by thu- conmlttee, ﬂoapnnacnt shali submit to the committee a
currnnt cux:1cu1un vLLae and description of the current placate.

from the proposed moaitozlng phyniulon. Sold material: chair b0

received in the Board office no later than Eouutcpn days before
Respondent‘u tlrnt ucteduiad probation appearance. The attached
provisions regarding monitoring physicians are incorporated
hernia as part of tre terms and conditions of this Stipulation.
Tho reapennibllit£es of the Munjtozlng physician shall include:
1.' Raapnndonc'o monitoring ph§aiclan shall

appear before the prothianor'o committee at thu {trot nmotlnq 0!

said comlttoe foliowlng commencement of the 9\obutlor. and at
such other timen as directed by the committee. It shall be
Respondent's rolpcnllbillty 'to ensure the agpcarancu of his
monitoring phyllcian as requeatad ur directed. Pailuxe of the
monitoring physician to appear as requested 'Jr directed shall

constitute a vinlution of the terms of this Stipulation and shall

subject the physician to disciplinary action.

'nnnﬁnv

fl. Rurpondent'u monitoring physicLan gha11

submit rgpart‘ on I quarterly basin, ln affidavit form, which
shall include:
a. Brief statement of why physician is on
probation.
b. Des"Llption or prnbntiouer'a practice.
c. nrlpf statement u! probationar‘a
compliance with tcrmu of probation.
d. Drlvf ﬂeﬂctpoIUH nr pxohatianer'n
gelationnhip with wunluorlng physician. --w
. 0. Detail any problems ﬁhlch may have ‘._
arisen with prohattoner.
Respondent shall ha responsible for eﬁnuring that the monitoring-
phyaiclan submits the required reports. I
11:. be available to: conunltation with
Respondent whenlvez neoclaaryh,at a freqUQHCy or at least once
per month.
'ivu Revigw 25! percent 0f ncrpundunt’e patient
records on a randum Lasts at lean: once eveLy month, for the

purpono o! alcortnlnlng the appropriatewenn or diagnonln and

course 0! trlltncnt and the adequacy o: madical :Iqotdu
justitylng eh: course of treatment and appropriateness of
diagnosing pnti-ntl;

v. Review all 0! Bespcndenr’u patient records

for patients treatci for/ulth potassium.

000008

