DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL Rmﬁzgk'rgjp W ‘E E D

BOARD OF MEDICINE

UeDartment of Professional Regulation
AGENCY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION, (' g ij
Petitioner, ”00L«~*"”'

CLERK
DPR CASE NUMBER: 0100197

_vS—- 7‘
LICENSE NUWWLL—Lﬁi

STEPHEN I. TICKTIN, M.D.,

 

Respondent.

/

CORRECTED FIHAL ORDER

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board)

pursuant to Section l20.57(3), Florida Statutes, on December 7,
1530, in Miami, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement
(ggtached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties
ER the above-styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent
ﬁgreement, the documents submitted in support thereof, the
hﬁﬁguments of the parties, and being otherwise advised in the
premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and hereby is approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Pursuant to Paragraph 4 of the
Stipulated DiSPOSition, the subject areas of the required
Continuing Medical Education are 10 hours in risk management or
medical recordkeeping and 40 hours in the management of trauma,
at least 10 of which must be related Specifically to head trauma.

With regard to the management of trauma, the Board recommends the

course of the American College of Surgeons.

Accordingly, the parties Shall adhere to and abide by the
terms and conditions of the Consent Agreement as amended.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of
the Department of Professional Regulation.//,7

51r-
DONE AND ORDERED this '2\ day of 2 ( , JagiL.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

    

ZACHARIA . , IAH, M-D.
CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

 

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Stephen 1.
Ticktin, M.D., 1575 West 49th Street, Suite 102, Hialeah, Florida
33012, and Mark A. Dresnick, Esquire, Grand Bay Plaza, Suite 201,
2665 South Bayshore Drive, Miami, Florida 33133 and by
interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical
Attorney, Department of Professional Regulation, 1940 North
Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, at or before

5:00 P.M., this day Of 1991.

 

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
DPR CASE NO. 0100197
vs.

STEPHEN I. TICKTIN, M.D.

Respondent.

/
ADMINISTBAIIKE_CQMELALHI

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as ”Petitioner”, and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against Stephen I. Ticktin, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
”Respondent”, and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with
regulating the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30,
Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458,
Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been
issued license number ME 0022998. Respondent‘s last known
address is 1575 West 49th Street, Suite 102, Hialeah, Florida
33012.

3. On or about December 27, 1985, patient #1 presented
to the Respondent's office complaining of pain in his neck and
lower back in addition to frontal headaches as a reSult of a

motor vehicle accident on or about December 21, 1985.

4. Respondent performed an x—ray on patient #1'5
cervical and lumosacral spine which revealed no evidence of
recent fracture or dislocation.

5. Respondent performed a physical examination on
patient #1 which revealed that patient #1 had noticeable pain in
his cervical and lumbosacral spine upon the extremes of motion
and extension.

6. Respondent subsequently diagnosed patient #1 as
having an acute traumatic Sprain of the cervical and lumbosacral
spine, and post traumatic cerebral syndrome.

7. Respondent recommended the following treatment plan
for patient #1: rest in the supine position with knees moderately
flexed, warm compresses on the symptomatic areas, physiotherapy,
the use of a cervical collar, and prescribed Vicodin for pain,
and Norflex as a muscle relaxant.

8. After his initial visit to the Respondent‘s office on
or about December 27, 1985, patient #1 made subsequent visit on

or about December 30, 1985, and on or about January 3, 1986, and
underwent electrical stimulation of the cervical and lumbosacral
spine.

9. On or about December 30, 1985, and on or about
January 3, 1986, the Respondent's medical records failed to
indicate that any physical or follow—up examination was performed
on patient #1.

10. On or about December 30, 1985, and on or abOut
January 3, 1986, the Respondent took no action to further treat
patient #l's head trauma, or to refer patient #1 to a neurologist

for additional treatment and Studies.

11. On or about January 6, 1986, patient #1 presented to
the Broward General Medical Center Emergency Room lethargic with
sluggish pupils, and complained of severe headaches for the past
two weeks, excessive sleepiness, and nausea and vomiting.

12. The Emergency Room Physician ordered a CT scan on
patient #1 which revealed a massive left chronic and subacute
subdural hematoma.

13. While in the Emergency Room, after the CT scan had
been performed, patient #1 became comatose and was Subsequently
transferred from the Emergency Room to an Intensive Care Unit.

14. Patient #1 never awakened from his coma and
eventually expired in his hospital floor room on or abOut
February 24, 1986, due to a massive chronic subacute subdural
hematoma.

CQHNI_QNE

15. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through feurteen (14) as if fully set forth herein this Count
One.

16. 'Respondent failed to practice medicine with that
level of care, skill, and treatment which a reasonably prudent
similar physician recognizes as acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances in that the Respondent failed to
perform any physical or follow—up examination on patient #1 after
his initial Office visit, the Respondent failed to further treat
patient #1's head trauma, and the Respondent failed to refer

patient #1 to a neurologist for additional treatment and studies.

17. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, in that
Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or the
failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill, and
treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances.

CQHHT_IEQ

18. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through fourteen (14) and seventeen (17) as if fully set
forth herein this Count Two.

19. Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of the patient, including, but
not limited to, the following: Upon subsequent visits to the
Respondent's office by patient #1, Respondent's medical records
of patient #1 failed to justify Respondent‘s failure to perform a
physical or follow—up examination on patient #1, Respondent‘s
medical records of patient #1 failed to justify Respondent‘s
failure to further treat patient #1'5 head trauma, Respondent's
medical records of patient #1 failed to justify Respondent‘s
failure to refer patient #1 to a neurologist for additional
treatment and studies.

20. Based oh the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, in that
Respondent failed to keep written medical records justifying the
course of treatment of the patient, including, but not limited

to, patient histories, examination results, and test results.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board
of Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent‘s license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition Of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
ReSpondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this 62§3r1qL_ day Ofé%%gﬂgéﬁéﬂikﬁéi______, 1993.

Larry Gonzalez
Secretary

§tephanie A. Daniel

Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson

Senior Attorney

Department of Professional
Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750

(904) 488—0062

LGM/twk/gs
10/3/89

FILED

Feaartment of Profess ona! Regulation
AGENCY CLERK

wait,

#¢;— .‘?0

CLERK

 

DATE

r‘ "“"W ( FILED

Deoirtment of Professional ReQU‘HW‘n
AGENCY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATIGﬁ .
BOARD OF MEDICINE (L)DQ0mH/”’~’I

 

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL LERK
. . DATE
Petltloner, .
v. DPR CASE NUMBER: 0100197

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0022998
STEPHEN I. TICKTIN, M.D.,

Respondent.

/
FINAL ORDER

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on December 7, 1991, in
Miami, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement (attached
hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the above-
styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent Agreement, the
documents submitted in support_ thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Pursuant to Paragraph 4 of the
Stipulated Dispeeition, the subject areas of the required
Continuing Medical Education are 20 hours in risk management or
medical reeordkeepihé and 40 hours in the management of trauma, at
least 10 of which must be related specifically to head trauma.
With regard to the management of trauma, the Board recommends the
course of the American College of Surgeons.

Accordingly, the parties shall adhere to and abide by all of

the terms and conditions of the Consent Agreement.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Department.

RF"
DONE AND ORDERED this '4 day ilggégﬁgbj , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

 

géi/

ZACHARIAH P. ZACHARIAH, H.D.
CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Stephen I. Ticktin,
M.D., 1575 West 49th Street, Suite 102, Hialeah, Florida 33012 and
Mark A. Dresnick, Esquire, Grand Bay Plaza, Suite 201, 2665 South
Bayshore Drive, Miami, Florida 33133 and by interoffice delivery
to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney, Department of
Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monrae

Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399~0792, at or before 5:00 P.H.,

rx
this 8 +/ day of ,- , 1991.

 

Executive Director

r (

 

 

 

.‘Frwrldw

 

E_E_M_Q_E_A_H_Q_ELM
TO: Larry McPherson, Chief Medical Attorney
FROM: Francie Plendl, Senior Attorney 1??
DATE: November 6, 1991

RE: DPR v. Stephen Ticktin, M.D.

*ir-ﬂ-k-ki*************1-*‘ki*i‘k********************************

The R. in this case (an orthopedic surgeon) is charged with
a (t) violation for failing to adequately treat a patient who had
been in a car accident. (He has also been charged with a records
violation related to the (t) violation). Although the patient
complained of frontal headaches, the R. did not order a CT scan,
or refer the patient to a neurologist and simply treated him
symptomatically. The patient later died of a subdural hematoma.

The R. has obtained two experts: an orthopedic surgeon and a
neurologist who are of the opinion that because the patient stated
that he had not lost consciousness or had any nausea, and because
the patient's in—office neurological exam was normal, the R. did
not practice below the standard.

The Department has two experts, (an orthopedic surgeon and a
neurologist) who gave written opinions that the R. did practice
below the standard. However during a discovery deposition the
orthopedic surgeon (Dr. McArthur) admitted that the patient did not
state that he had received a direct blow to his head, nor did he
have injuries consistent with this. In addition, Dr. McArthur
admitted that the patient had preserved orientation and no focal
neurological signs, which one would expect with a subdural
hematoma.

The patient has signed a Consent Agreement whereby he agrees

to:
— a $5,000 fine
— a Letter of Concern
— 50 extra CME'S in an area to be determined by the Board
The R. has no prior discipline with the Department.
:FP

DIVISION OF‘ REGULATION — LEGAL

NOR'I'IIWOOD‘ CENTRE - 1940 NORTH MONROE STREET - TALLAHASSEE, FLORIDA 32399-0792
Telephone (90-1) 488-0061 - Fax (904) 487-9622

DEPARTME. ‘T OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION ““ffﬂfﬂi‘m

Ccnrgu ‘Ix'iunrl

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
V. DOAH CASE NO. 90-1906
DPR CASE NO. 0100197
STEPHEN I. TICKTIN, M.D.,

Respondent.

I

CONSENT AGREEMENT

STEPHEN I. TICKTIN, M.D., referred to as the "Respondent",
and the Department of Professional Regulation, referred to as
"Department", stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and
to the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred
to as "Board", incorporating the stipulated Facts and stipulated
Disposition in this matter.

STIPULATED FACTS

1. At all times material heretor Respondent was a licensed
physician in the State of Florida having been issued license number
ME 0022998.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules enacted
pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative
Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of

fact contained in the Administrative Complaint.

STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458,
Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department and the
Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute violations
of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative
Complaint.

STIPULATED DISPOSITION

1. FUTURE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the future
violate Chapters 455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto.

2. FINE. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in

 

the amount of $5,000.00 against the Respondent. The fine shall be
paid by the Respondent to the Executive Director of the Board
within 30 days of its imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. The Respondent shall receive a Letter of Concern from the
Board of Medicine.

4. The Respondent shall attend 50 hours of Category I
Continuing Medical Education courses in an area to be determined
by the Board, within two years from the date of the Final Order
adopting this Stipulation. Respondent shall submit a written plan
to the Board for approval prior to the completion of said courses.
Respondent shall submit documentation of completion of these
courses to the Board. These hours shall be in addition to those

hours required for renewal of licensure. Unless otherwise approved

by the Board the courses shall be in a live lecture format.

5. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject
to the approval of the Board and the Department. In this regard
the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs) shall
have no force and effect unless a Final Order is entered
incorporating the terms of this Agreement, by the Board.

6. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting
of the Board where this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in
conjunction with the consideration of this Agreement by the Board,
shall respond to questions under oath from the Board, Board Staff
or Department Staff.

7. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by the Respondent may be used as
direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding; however,
such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment
purposes.

8. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this
joint Agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will
in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board and/or the
Department against the Respondent for acts or omissions not
specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as
Exhibit "A” herein.

9. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps, and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the

Board incorporating said Agreement.

I “2"

10. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will hear his own attorney's fees and
costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's fees or costs
from the Department in connection with this matter.

11. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the
Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by
the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or
any of its members from further participation, consideration or
resolution of these proceedings.

* (1135M
SIGNED this 369 day 03%, 1991.

Stephen 1. Ticktin, M.D.

 

Sworn to and subscribed

beforehmg his ‘33 day
03' of @“ ’ , 1991.

    

. ““behz l9"!
NOTARY PUBEI' 3‘ g. '6‘
\_,. .3???‘ afﬁli-
My Commission Expires: §“T' 201
Notary Public State of Honda 51?; NUTA RY gm;
My Commission Expues Feb. 14. 1993 :- .- E :1
Bonded Thru Regency In; Go. ‘agﬁ. PUBLIC :31";
1L I i' -"\ 3

/
APPROVED this J day of Mmmﬁﬂi , 1991.

George Stuart
Secretary

  
      

y: G. McPherson, Jr.
Chief Attorney

Medical Section

