 

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGUL 119
BOARD OF MEDICINE 0' \ . .

 

 

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL max /
REGULATION, / Q,
Petitioner,
DPR CASE NUMBER: 0100468
-vs- DOAH CASE NUMBER: 90-0545

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0005090
HENRY D. MESSER, M.D.,

Respondent.
M/
FINAL ORDER

This cause came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.57(1)(b)10, Florida Statutes, on August
4, 1990, in Jacksonville, Florida,-for the purpose of considering
the Hearing Officer's Recommended Order (a copy of which is
attached hereto as Exhibit A) in the above-styled cause.
Petitioner, Department of Professional Regulation, was
represented by Stephanie A. Daniel, Attorney at Law. Respondent
was duly notified of the hearing and was not present.

Upon review of the Recommended Order, the argument of the
parties, and after a review of the complete record in this case,
the Board makes the following findings and conclusions.

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Findings of fact set forth in the Recommended Order are

approved and adopted and incorporated herein.

2. There is competent substantial evidence to support the

findings of fact.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. The Board has jurisdiction of this matter pursuant to
Section 120.57(1), Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. The conclusions of law set forth in the Recommended
Order are approved and adopted and incorporated herein.

3. There is competent substantial evidence to support the
conclusions of law.

PENALTY,

Upon a complete review of the-record in this case, the Board
determines that the penalty recommended by the Hearing Officer be
APPROVED and ACCEPTED. WHEREFORE,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that

Respondent's'license to practice medicine in the State of
Florida is placed on PROBATION for a period of one year.

1. Respondent shall comply with all state and federal
statutes, rules and regulations pertaining to the practice of
medicine, including Chapters 455, 458, and 893, Florida Statutes,
and Rules 21M, Florida Administrative Code.

2. Respondent shall appear before the Probation Committee
at the first meeting after said probation commences, at the last
meeting of the Probation Committee preceding termination of
probation, and at such other times requested by the Committee.
The next meeting of the Probation Committee shall be on September

20, 1990, in Tampa, Florida. Respondent shall be noticed by

Board staff of the exact time and place of the Board's

there may well have been no disciplinary action. This is
bepause, unlike the New York law under which the Respondent was
disciplined, the Florida statutory provisions authorizing
disciplinary action against physicians licensed in this state do
not authorize disciplinary action upon conviction of any crime,
but only those crimes that directly relate to the practice of
medicine or the ability to practice medicine. See Section
458.331(1)(c), Florida Statutes. And, in any event, the
disciplinary guidelines in Rule 21M-20. 001 provide little
guidance with respect to violations of‘ Section 458. 331(1)(c),
because the guideline range is extremely broad.

7. Rule 21M-20.001 also lists six specific factors to
be considered in determining whether aggravating or mitigating
circumstances warrant a deviation from the guideline penalties.
Each of the specified factors supports a conclusion that the
penalty in this case should be mitigated in favor of the
Respondent. A further consideration is that there does not
appear to be any record basis for imposing a harsher penalty in
Florida than was imposed in New York.

W
On the basis of all of the foregoing, it is RECOMMENDED
that the Board of Medicine enter a final order in this case
concluding that the Respondent has violated Section

458.331(l)(b), Florida Statutes, and imposing a penalty of one

year probation.

000079

DONE AND ENTERED in Tallahassee, Leon County, Florida,

EL

this 25 day of June 1990.

 

c;//HICHAEL H. PARRISH
Hearing Officer
Division of Administrative Hearings
The DeSoto Building
1230 Apalachee Parkway
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-1550
(904) 488-9675

Filed with the Clerk of the
Division f Administrative Hearings
this day of June 1990.

Copies furnished:

’ Andrea Bateman, Esquire
'Department of Professional
Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street
Suite 60
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792

Henry D. Messer, M.D.
23248 Bonair
Dearborn Heights, MI 48127

Doroty Faircloth

Executive Director

Board of Hedidine

Department of Professional
Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street

Suite 60

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792

Kenneth E. Easley

General Counsel

Department of Professional
Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street

Suite 60

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792

Case No. 90-0545

000080

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT Of PROFESSIONAL

REGULATION, ;

Petitioner, ;
vs. } CASE NO. 0100468
HENRY D. MESSER, M.D., ;

Respondent. i

___________________________________
ADMINISIBAII!E_CQM2LAINI

COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referreg to as "Petitioner"; and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against Henry D. Messer, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent", and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is, and has been at all times material
hereto, a licensed physician in the State of Florida having been‘
issued license number ME 0005090. Respondent's last known
address is 23248 Bonair, Dearborn Heights, Michigan 48i27.

3. The New York State Board of Regents is the mediéal
licensing authority for the State of New Yotk.

4. On or about September 18, 1987, the New York State

000005

Board of Regents, Regents Review Committee voted to suspend

Respondent's license and registration to practice as s physician

in the State of New York for a period of one year. The Regents
Review Commﬁttee voted to stay the period of suspension.

5. On or about October 24, 1987, the Commissioner of
Education, for the State Education Department and the Board of
Regents, entered an order suspending Respondent's license and
registration to practice as a physician in the State of New York
for a period of one year. The Commissioner further ordered that
the suspension be stayed.

6. The action of the New York State Board of Regents was
predicated upon findings that Respondent had been convicted in
Michigan of a misdemeanor (indecent and obscene conduct), which
hif committed in New York, would have constituted a crime, and,
therefore, was professional misconduct.

16. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(b), Florida Statutes, by having his license to
practice medicine acted against by the licensing authority of the
medical licensing authority of another state, New York.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

000000

SIGNED this [5" day ofw, 1989.

Larry Gonzalez, Secretary

    

y. Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Stephanie A. Daniel

Chief Medical Attorney

Dept. of Professional Regulation
1940 N. Monroe Street, Suite 60
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792
(904) 488-0062

FILED

Department of Prof«='~!~1' “~7utation
AG:"7" “ J:

000007

is required. Failure of the Respondent to appear as requested or
directed shall be considered a violation of the terms of this
Order, and shall subject the Respondent to disciplinary action.

3. In the event that Respondent leaves the active practice
of medicine in this state for a period of thirty days or more,
the following provisions of his probation shall be tolled:

a. The time period of probation shall be tolled.

b. The provisions regarding preparation of investigative
reports detailing compliance with this Order shall be
tolled. See paragraph 6 below.

5. In the event that Respondent does not engage in the
active practice of medicine for a period of one year or more, the
Probation Committee may require Respondent to appear before the
Probation Committee and demonstrate his ability to practice
medicine with skill and safety to patients prior to resuming the
practice of medicine in this State.

6. During this period of probation, semi—annual

investigative reports will be compiled by the Department of

the terms of the Order issued based on this proceeding. Such

costs include, but are not limited to, the cost of preparation of

investigative reports detailing compliance with the terms of this

proceeding and administrative costs directly associated with

Respondent's probation. See Section 458.331(2), Florida
Statutes.

-3 _

This order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department of Professional Regulation.

DONE AND ORDERED this ‘35 day of , 1990.

BOARD OF DICINE

MARGARET Gig. SKINNER, M.D.

CHAIRMAN

PROFESSIONAL REGULATION AND A SECOND COPY, ACCOMPANIED BY FILING
FEES PRESCRIBED BY LAW, WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL, FIRST
DISTRICT, OR WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL IN THE APPELLATE
DISTRICT WHERE THE PARTY RESIDES. THE NOTICE OF APPEAL MUST BE

FILED WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF RENDITION OF THE ORDER TO BE
REVIEWED.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Henry D.
Messer, M.D., 23248 Bonair Street, Dearborn Heights, Michigan
48127, by U.S. Mail to Michael M. Parrish, Hearing Officer,

Division of Administrative Hearings, The DeSoto Building, 1230

Apalachee Parkway, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—1550; and by
interoffice delivery to Stephanie A. Daniel, Attorney at Law,

Department of Professional Regulation, 1940 North Monroe Street,

'Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792 at or before 5:00 P.M., this

He day of ML 1990 .

""HV‘.‘

Orders/MesserH 8-90

STATE OF PIDRIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

DEPARTMENT oi? PROFESSIONAL
ucmnox, noun or nnxcxn,

Petitioner,

VS. CASE NO. 90-0545

HENRY D. MESSER, H.D.,

Respondent.

vvvuvvvvvvv

!

RECOMMENDED ORDER

 

Pursuant to notice, a formal hearing was conducted in
I this case at Tallahassee, Florida, on May 29, 1990, before
-Michael M. Parrish, a duly designated Hearing Officer of the

Division of Administrative Hearings; Appearances at the hearing

were as follows:

APPEARANCES
For Petitioner: Andrea Bateman, Esquire
Department of Professional
Regulation

Northwood Centre
1940 North Monroe Street
Suite 60
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792
For Respondent: (No appearance)
STATEMENT OF THE ISSUES
This is a license discipline case in which the
Petitioner seeks to take disciplinary action against the
Respondent. By Administrative Complaint the Respondent has been
charged with a violation of Section 458.331(1)(b), Florida
Statutes, on the basis of allegations that disciplinary action

was taken against the Respondent's license to peilgﬂzlcnedicine
in the state of New York.

"Q - #4“

W

At the formal hearing, the Petitioner appeared through
counsel. There was no appearance by the Respondent. The
Petitioner offered two exhibits which were received in evidence
and also presented the testimony of one witness. The Petitioner
also requested that official recognition be taken of various
documents. The request for official recognition was granted and
the documents officially recognized have been included in the
record in this case. The parties were allowed until

June 8, 1990, within which to file proposed recommended orders.

proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. The substance

of all findings proposed by the Petitioner has been included in

the findings of fact set forth below.
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The Respondent is a licensed physician in the State
of Florida, and has been so licensed at all times material to

this case. His license number in the State of Florida is

ME 0005090.

2. The New York State Board of Regents is the medical
licensing authority of the State of’ New York. On or about
September 4, 1987, the New York State Board of Regents, Regents
Review Committee, voted to suspend the Respondent’s license and
registration to practice as a physician in the State of New York
fqr a period of one year. The Regents Review Committee also

voted to stay the period of suspensiorﬂoooarﬁ or about

September 18, 1987, the Board of Regents voted to accept the
findings, conclusions, and recommendations of the Regents Review
Committee. bn October 24, 1987, the Commissioner of Education of
the State of New York, acting for and on behalf of the State

Education Departnent and the Board of Regents, issued an order

reading as follows:

Upon the report of the Regents Review
Committee, under Calendar No. 7367, the
record herein, the vote of the Board of
Regents on September 18, 1987, and in
accordance with the provisions of Title VIII
of the Education Law, which report and vote

are incorporated herein and made a part
hereof, it is ‘

ORDERED that the record herein be accepted:
that the report, findings of fact,
determination as to guilt, and recommendation
as to the penalty to be.imposed rendered by
the Regents Review Committee in the matter of
HENRY D. MESSER, respondent, be accepted;
that the respondent is guilty of the charge
by a preponderance of the evidence: that
respondent's license and registration to
practice as a physician in the State of New
York be suspended for one year upon ,the
charge of which respondent has been found

guilty: and that execution of said suspension
be stayed.

3. The charge against the Respondent that resulted in
the »order described above was that he had violated Section
§509(5)(a)(iii), of the New York Education Law, which authorizes
disciplinary action when a licensee is guilty of "[b3eing
convicted of committing an act constituting a crime under . .
[tjhe law of another jurisdiction and which, if committed in this
state, would have constituted a crime under New York State law."
The Respondent’s criminal conviction is described in the charge

against him as follows: 000075

On or about February 14, 1985, after a non-
jury trial in the 36th District Court for the
City of Detroit, Michigan, the Respondent was
convicted of Disorderly Conduct - Indecent
and Obscene Conduct in a Public Place (City
of Detroit Ordinance, section 39-3-7), a
misdemeanor. The Respondent was fined

$250.00 and placed on probation for a period
of one year.

4. In determining the appropriate penalty to recommend
in the New York proceedings against the Respondent, the Regents
Review Comhittee specifically considered the Respondent's
"unblemished record for approximately 30 years," as well as the
fact that the Petitioner in the New York proceedings was not
seeking to prevent the Respondent from practicing medicine.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. The Division of Administrative Hearings has
jurisdiction over the parties to and the subject matter of this
proceeding. Sec. 120.57, Fla. Stat.

2. Pursuant to Section 458.331(1)(b); Florida
Statutes, the iBoard of Medicine is authorized to take
disciplinary action against a licensee who is guilty of:

Having a license or the authority to practice
medicine revoked, suspended, or otherwise
acted against, including the denial of
licensure, by the licensing authority of any

jurisdiction, including its agencies or
subdivisions.

3. The facts in the case establish a violation of
Section 458.331(1)(b), Florida Statutes. The Petitioner argues
that such violation warrants a penalty of revocation of the

Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Florida. In support

of the argument the Petitioner directs attention 9{)0tpr7serious

nature of the violation and the fact that he [Respondent] could
do potential injury to the public."

4: The arguments in favor of revocation are not
persuasive. With regard to the "serious nature" of the
violation, it is first noted that the crime of which the
Respondent was convicted is only a misdemeanor; not a felony.
Further, the licensing authorities in New York were of the
opinion that the crime was not sufficiently serious to seek to
prevent the Respondent tron practicing medicine. With regard to
"potential injury to the public," the record in this case simply
lacks any information upon which to predicate a belief that the
Respondent is likely to injure the.pub1ic. Specifically, there
is nothing in the record of this case upon which to base a
suspicion, much less a conclusion, that the Respondent poses any
threat of harm to his patients. ‘

5. The Board of Medicine has adopted disciplinary
guidelines that appear at Rule 21M-20.001, Florida Administrative
Code. For a violation of »Section 458.331(1)(b), Florida
Statutes, Rule 21M-20.001 provides the following recommended

penalty range:

From imposition of discipline comparable to
the discipline which would have been imposed
if the substantive violation had occurred in
Florida to suspension or denial of the
license until the license is unencumbered in
the jurisdiction in which disciplinary action
was originally taken, and an administrative
fine ranging from $250.00 to $5,000.00

6. It is difficult to apply the foregoing disciplinary
guideline to the facts in this case because if, in the language

of the rule, "the substantive violation haﬁtfﬁifiﬁfd in Florida,"

‘ 5

