 

FILED

Dﬁr-‘srtment Cf F’mfrqs ﬁﬁﬂ' Hm u'm'tlhn

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESEIUNAL REGULAEEGEE

BOARD OF MEDICINE Qt:
5M 5?wa

H—q—id—Fh-F

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION

CI_ERK——u—-**“—'“F

THTT £h:&9P;§L_FL§;%i———?

—ve- ’ ope CASE NUMBER: 0100515
LICENSE NUMBER} ME $049592

Fat 27.1: iC‘aI'lEI" .

eﬁwﬂun CHARLES RﬂSENELATT, m.n.,

Reépondent.

-__f

FINAL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER eame before the Heard of Medicine {Beard}
pureuant te Sectien 120;5T{3}, Florida Statutes, on October T,
19ﬁ9, in Tempe. Floridar fer eeneideratien of a Stipulation
{attached herete as Exhibit A} entered into between the parties
in the ahove—etyled ease. Upon eensideratien ef the StipulatLen,
the documents Submitted in support thereof.-the arguments nf the
Fﬁ£;;es, due ee-ug eHEEIWLDe advised Ln ﬁne premiseST

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED END ADJUDGED that the Stipulation as
submitted be end: is hereby approved and adopted in tote and
incorporated by reierence herein. Accordingly,'the parties sha1i
adhere to and. abide lay all of the terms and conditions of the
Stipulation.

This Order takes effect upnn filing with the Clerk of the

Department.

 

 

   

Darla mu. 9121321331: this 2 day at , 1-539.

/ BOARD 01‘ MEDICINE

Fum 5.. ASHKAR, M.EL
CHAIM

 

 

CERTIFICATE , OF SERVTEE

'I HEREBY CERTiFY that a true and correct copy DI the
.fa‘rggoing Order has been provided by certiiied mail to Arthur
Chafiea Rasen-blatt, 14.13., Route 3, 1606 Highway 64 West,
.Wauchula., Fl-Dr'i‘da 33333, and by interaff-ice delivery to Larry G.
MeE-hgraun, Jr.z ﬂtrtnrnay at Law, Department of Professional
' Regulation, Nerthwocd Centre. 194!) Hurth Mﬂnrme Street,

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-n792, at a: before 5:3ﬂ p M., this

)n' _ Fl 1' 1"... ..
”:1 day at “M L%__, 1965‘.

 

-:-:-I-.w‘-- ""'>-‘-‘-,"'-"‘ a .'-\| a ...:--el
Q

_ ETAEE_GF FLORIDA, _
DEPARTMENT OF PREFESSTDNﬁLvREGﬂiﬁEIDN
EGARn-GF MEDICINE -

DEPAITMEnT-DF PEDEESSIOHAL

Petitidner,
DPR CASE mos. Qluuals
?s.
'ARTHUR EHARLES RUBENBLAET,

Raﬁpnndent.

f
hﬂHlHlEI33112543ﬂHELAIHE

EUMES NOW the Petitianer, Department of Professidnal
Regulatian, hereinafter referred to as "Petitiﬂner"1 and files
this Administrative Camplaint befﬂre the Bcard 0f Medicine
agaith-Arthﬁr C. Hoseﬁblatt, H.D., hereinafter referred ta 6%
*EEspondent“, aﬁd allegEE:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with
régulating the practice of medicine pursuant t9 Sectien Eﬂ.3ﬂ,
Flerida Statutes;.ﬂhapter 455. Florida Statutes; and Chapter 453.
Florida Statutea.

- 2. Reépandent is and has been at 311 timEE material
hgréto.a licensed physician in the State of Flcrida, having been
igsﬁéﬁ license numbEr ME DB49592. Respondent's last kn¢wn
aﬁﬁreSﬁ is Route 3. lEﬂE Highway 64 West, Hauchula, Florida
33m}

3. 0n DI abuut April 2?, 1938; at Dr abeut 12:50 a.m.,
Hatient #1 was brwught tn the emergency Euﬂm EL Hdraaa Memorial

Hqspital with statuﬁ eyileyticus and high fevep.

uuwo:2

 

.....

4. Patiant #L's symptoma representéd an absolute
medical emergency.

5. ﬂhe emergency ream physician ﬁn duty called the
Eesgondgnt because thé Reagendent had prevkcugly treated patient
#1 ﬁﬁr status apiieppicua and-the'ResFandent tﬁstructed the
emergency room physician tn admit patient #1 t6 the cgma unit and
pﬁt patient #1 on Respondent‘s service.

‘EL_’_R95pbndent wag patient #1“s treating physkcian.

?. At 0; abbut 4 a.m., patient #i.wa$ transfezrad tn
the intensive,cafe unit [I.C.U.) from the_cama unit after the
eﬁérgancy rcbm'physician had Spﬂken with Réﬁpﬁndenﬁ cancerning
3aid_transfér. ‘

S. Hardeg MENDrial Huagital's Medical staff rule:
-requine a traating.phyéician ta attenﬂ-to his I.C.U. patient
within.tﬁﬁ’h0urs fdllnwing admissiﬁn ts the uﬂit.

Er Respgndént did not arrive at the haspital until at

gr;abou;«953ﬂ anm. en_mr abcut Agril 27, 1533,-approx;mately B-lﬂ

heutﬁ EubEQghEhL L: aﬁmiﬁhian.
EQHHTHQHE
lﬂ. Petitioner tealleges and incarpﬁﬁateé paragraphs one

{1} through nine-{S} as ii fully Set EarthLabove.

11. ReapﬁndEnt failad to practice medicine with an
acceptable level bf cafe, skill, and tréatment in-ghat Respcndent
,failed ts attend his I.C.U. patient #1 within the two-hour time
limit establ£shed by the hosPital and, in-fact, was nﬂt evén

yreaént pb-treat patient #1 within that critical period at time.

:3- :1; 9.9 , 3

 

12. Based an the foregoing, Reépandent vialated sectinn
453.331111{t1, F1crida Statutaa, by failing to pra¢tice medicine
with that level gf care, skill, and treatment which is recognized
by a.rea5qnably prudent similar-physigian as being acceptable
unﬁer similar conditions_and nircumstaHGEH.

Jﬂnﬂf 1-;

l3. Petitioner realleges and inqérporétés paragraphs Gne

(l) Ihrqugh ngne [9} and eleven {11] a5 if fully.set ﬁbrth above.

I 14.. .Resﬁondenﬁ failed to keep ﬁrittan medical retards
justifying the course of treatment of the patient including, but
nut limited tn the following: Respondent by failing t0 appear at
the-hospital unti; approximately 9*1D hours after his EatiEnt was
'admitted'éan nﬁt iuétify the course af'the patient’s.tréatment
within this time period.

15. Baaed on the preceding allegations, Respcndent
vialated sacticn 458.331{111m}, Flurida Statutes, by ﬂailing to
keep written-medical rewards justifying the caurse 0E treatméht
ﬁf the matfnnt, inclnﬂings but not limitEd-to: patient hiSEDIieﬁ,
examinatiﬂn, and test results.

'WHEREFORE, the Eetitioner respectfully requests the Beard
Of Medicine enter an Order imposing one or mare 0f tﬁe following
Penalties: revocation Gr suspensiﬂ of the Respondent's license,
restrictipn 0f the Respondant‘s practice, impositiuu uf an

administrative fine, issuance of a reprimandg glacement of the

 

 

O. Q

Respondent Qn prabatiqm, andfcr any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this anHL‘ day QE (4. siJNQ d} 1989.

LARRY GONZALEZ
Secretary

    

 

By: Stephanie . Déﬁiel
Chief Medical Atturney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT :

FILED

 

 

ﬁdn 3-1. Hyman P&nﬁrimgqt Of prrfquﬁ , _ .1

S&Hibr Attﬂrney AGENC;éLEgjﬁemmjmn

Department of Professional '
REQUlatiqn. H"

13ﬂ Borth Munroe Street 59_

Tallaha-ss‘ee,‘ Florida 32333-ﬂ?5ﬂ - 1.....-

{9ﬂ41 Ata—uuaz “ERR

E'FhI-ifJKfQS DQTE Li .. 1:. - g "IF

I"I_‘__——I——
SfEﬁBS
PCP:

 

 

MAIL R-EcEw-ED

. ms 1. F! 1939
STATE 0? FLURIDA _ -. -
ssssssmsss DP PsstssstsL HEGUEATIDH

DEBARTMEHW 0F PRDFESSIDNAL
REGQLATIUN, ‘

Pstitionsr,

boss CASE NO. ss~2525
vs. ass CASE ND. ﬂlDﬂSlE

'ﬂF-THUR CHERLES RUSEHELATT, H. LL ,

Respondsnt.

 

SEIEHLEIIBH

Arthnr Charles Rssenblatt, H.D., referred to as
Rsspsndsnt, and the Department of' Proﬁsssisnsl Regulatisn,
referrad to as Department, stipulate and agree tn the
fbllowing jﬂint Stipulatish and Final Qrdsr of the Baard of
Medicine, referred to as Board, inssryarsting this Stipulation
and agreement in this case.

SEIEHLEIEH_EECIE

1. At all timss material to this matter, RESPGndent
was a lLuEHssd physician in tns Stats at Florida having been
issued license number ME uu49592.

2Q‘ [Respondent was Charged by an -Edministrativs
Complaint filed by the Department and 'prspsrly‘ sszved upDn
Respondent wits vinlaLisns sf Chapter 453. Florida Statutes,
and the rules enacted pursuant therets. A true and correct
sop¥< of the .sdministrqtive Complaint is attached and

-inssrpsratsd by LBEHTHHDE as Exhibit s.

w

 

. - '«I-H'

3. ' Respondent neither admits her denies the
allegations of fact contained in the Administrative Eamplaint
atteehed as Exhibit A.

~SILEHLEIED_EﬂHﬂLﬂﬂlﬂES_ﬂEﬂL&H

l. ﬂeshendent, in his capacity as a licensed
yhjsiﬁlan, admits that in such capacity he is subject tn the
'prDViSiohe of Chayters 455 and 453, Florida Statutes, and the
jhrieﬁietienuef'the Department ahd the Beard.

2. hespandent admits that the facts; set forth in the
Administrative Camplaint, attached hereto as Exhibit "A“, if
Frauen, constitute violations of Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative.Complaint.

muﬁwﬂamhmmmnmm

1. Respondent Shall not in the future Vinlate Ehapters
£55, 458 and 393, Florida Statutes, DI the rules premulgeted

pursuant theretn.

2. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand from the
heard u? ﬂail: ME

3. EffectiVe en the date of the filing of the Final
Order incorporating the terms of this Stipulatich,

Raﬁpﬂndenh'e litense to practice medicine shall he placed on
probation fer a period of three {3] years, to run centurrehtly
With the prehatinnary'peried included in the Final Order ﬂf

the Board of Medicine, filed April 19, 1939. The terms and

¢endition5.ef prehatien shall include;

UUOUGQ

 

c. ‘e

a. Reependent shall comply With all state and

federal statutes, rules and regulations pertaining to the
practice of medieine, ihtluding Chapters 455, 458, and 893,
‘Fleriea Statutes, and Rule 21h, Flerida Administrative Code.

h. Reshendeﬂt shall appear before the Board's
designated prebatiener's committee at the first meeting after
eeid prebation commehees, at the last meeting of the Board’s
\ qeeignatEd: ﬁrehatieher's committee precedingi terhinatien ef
the pinbatien; quarterly and at such other times as requested
"by the ﬁeard’s probationer's committee. Failure ef Respondent
te appear Has requested ‘er directed shall he considered a
vieiatien of the terms Of this Stipulation, and shall subject
the Respondent to disciplinary action.

e. In the event the Respondent leaves the State Of
Fleﬁidh.fer a peried eﬁ thirty days er mere er-etherwiee does
iﬁet ehyage'in the active praCtiee of mediethe in the State ef
F‘lerid'e, than certain previeiens ef Reependent'e probatiun
iﬁﬂd pﬂlj theee.gtevi$iene of said Prehetien} shall be tolled
a5 enemerated belew and shall remain in a tolled status until
Eeepeneeht retutht t0 active practice in the State of Flerida.
Respendent must keep current residence and business addresses
1 on file with the Board. Respondent ehall notify the Board
within ten {13] daye" of any changes of said addressee.
Furthermore, Reependent shall I'mtify the Beard within ten {lﬂj
_'d__ﬂjf5 in the event that Respondent leaves the aetivu Practice

e'f medic i-ne in Florida .

UJJUGS

 

.{

-—- W

' d. In the event that Reepenﬁent leavea the active

practice of medicine in this state for a period ef thirty days

er mere, the fellewing provisions of his probation shall be

tailed:

1. The time period of ptnbatien shall be
tolled.

2. The previsione regarding preparation of
investigative reports detailing cemplianee with this

Stipulation shall be tolled. See paragraphs 39 below.
3. VThe eemmunity service requirements detailed
in paragraph 3i.beiew shall be tolled.

e. In the event that Respondent leaves the active
pEHCtice of medicine fer a period at ene year or more, the
Prebetienere' Committee may require Respendent ta appea;
befere the Prebatienere' Cemmittee and demenstrate his ability
te.practiee medicine with skill and'eefety to patients prior
-te reeuming the practiee hf medicine in this State.

i. Ateyendent uneii submit quarterly- reports, in
affidavit form, the contents of which shall be SpecifiEd by

the Board. The reperts shall include:

1. Brief statement of why physician is on
prdbatien.
ii. Uescriptien of practice lecatien.
iii. Describe current practiCe [type and
eempeeitien].
iv. Brief statement at eemﬁiig Ce with
Ju Lia

probatienary terms.

 

u.» o»

v. Copy of a telephene leg maintained by
Reependent. of all calls received at his residence from any
'heepital concerning the care, treatment or status of his
patients.

g. Reagendent understands that during the course ef
the probation quarterly reports shall be prepared by
investigaters with the Department detailing Respondent's
CDMpiianCE with the terms and eenditiene of this probation.
Reependent waivee eenfidentielity of these reperte ae tn the
Department Only so that the Beard may review these reperte.

h. Reagendent Shall comply 1with all of the‘ terme
and menditiens ef the Stipulatien.

i. Reepeneent shall petEerm thirty [30} hours ei
temmunity serviCe in a net~fer profit setting, Outside of the
physician's office, Per year. Community serviee shall consist
of medical service without fee fer the good at the peeple ef
the State of Fletide. RespondEnt shall Submit a written plan
f0: petiurmence and ,empletleh oi the Cﬂmmunity service tn the
probatienex‘e eemmittee far approval prior to yerfermance ef
said eemmunity service. Affidavits detailing the community

service performed shall he filed with the Beard.

J. Heependent shall pay all tests necessary to
eemply with the terme of the Final Order issued based on this

Stipulatign. Such eoste includer but are not limited ta, the

_cest Of Preparetlen eﬁ investigative reperte detailing
compliance with the terms of this Stipulation and the Beard'e

administrative CDEtE directly associated with :ﬁe? engent‘e
.J [4...]

O?

prebetlon. See Section 45H-Jllt23. Florida Statutes.

I Q;
a; : -:.‘
Ly:

 

4. .It is expresely undereteee that this Stipulatiﬂn is
subject te the approval of the Heetd ane the Department. In
thie regard, the foregoing paragraphs {and only the foregoing
pereereghe ef the Stipuleted Fecte, Stipulated Cenclesiene of
.Law-and Stipulated Disposition} shall have he ferce and effect
uhieee e Einel Urder is entered incerpereting the terms of
this Stipuletiﬂnﬂ‘ty the-Beerd.

5. ' Respeneeht shall appear before the Beard at the
meeting' of the Beard where this Stipulation is considered.
Reependent. in eenjunctien with the consideration of this
Stiyuietien .by the Beard, shell respond to questions under
eeth.frem the Eeaed. Beard Staff er Department Staff.

:ﬁa ‘ Shehle this Stipulatien he rejected, no statement
made in furtherance of this Stipulatien, by the Respendeht
may he used as direct evidence against the R‘e-epG-ndent in any
preceeding; however, such statements may he used by the
Petitioner fer impeeehment only.

“ Reegehetnt an: the Degartmeht telly understand that
this jeint ’ Stipulation and euheequent Final Order
)vineexge'reti'ng Same. will in ne way preclude additional.
preteedings by the Board andfor the Department ageinet the
Reegondent for acts 0: emissions net specifically Set ferth in

the Administrative Eempleint attached at Exhibit “A“ herein.

 

#52,.

-E-.‘.' Ugon the Beand"$ adoptiqn of this Sti-pulatian,
Respﬁﬁdent Eﬁpfﬁ'ﬁsl‘y waives all further pracedural stapt, am]
Bxgrﬁasly waives all rightﬁ to seek judicial rgview of ms to
cth'érwise challenge or qcnteat the validity at the juint
ﬁtipula‘tian of fatta, conclusions of law:r and imposition of
discipline, am: the Final Drder cf the Board incorporating
said Stipulatian,

5-. upmhg the Board's. adcaptin‘n trf this stipulation, the
partits hereby agree that each party will hear his own
rattimtne'f's fees' and casts tesulting tram prm'secut'itm andg'ar
dEfEﬂEE' of this: proceeding. Reagenrient waives the right to
.EEE-KI anglatttlrneﬂy‘s fees or costs {turn the Department in
t_tahnéc't'iph with this' disciplinary proteedimg.

‘ mt. {I‘his Stipulation is executed- hjr ”the Respondent Em:
the ~puﬂpose of avgiéing furthar awniniﬁtrative action with
respect tu thi-s cause. In this regard, Respﬁndent authorizes
the Baatd- tn: review and examine all iHVEEtiigatitre tile
matezills ﬁﬁﬂ'a-‘Ezdliig swapundent prior to m: in canjunctiﬁn
with consideration of the; Stipulation. Furthermore, should
thisy'joint Etipul'a-ticn hat be accepteﬂ by the Erhard, it 1-5;
agreed that presentation to and tonsideratinnv of this
StLFula'tit-n and other documeuts and matters by the Eﬂﬂrd shall

net unfairly 0r illegally prejudice the Beard :31.- angr 0E itﬁ

UUGUGS

 

APPRWED this {Mday of M. 15:39.

Larry Gunzalez
Secretary

By: Steﬁhanie A. DanieIﬁ
Chiéf Attorney
Medical Sectiﬂﬂ

LGHImkh
913(39
1154

