FILED

Department of Professional Regulation
AGENCY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL RQQU
BOARD OF MEDI (L/QQ
‘00\/

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION , CLERK

Petitioner, DATE-—— --——::E;L:£ELL____

DPR CASE NUMBER: 0100962
DOAH CASE NUMBER: 90-4699
-VS- LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0036077

 

SAYYED ARSHAD HUSSAIN, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

 

This cause came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.57(1)(b)10, Florida Statutes, on April
13, 1991, in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, for the purpose of
considering the Hearing Officer's Recommended Order, Respondent's
Exceptions to the Recommended Order, Petitioner's Response to
Respondent‘s Exceﬁtions and Petitioner’s Exceptions, and
Respondent's Response to Petitioenr's exceptions (copies of which
are attached hereto as Exhibits A, B, C. and D, respectively) in
the above-styled cause. Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, was represented by Bruce D. Lamb, Attorney at Law.

Respondent was present and represented by Rodney w. Morgan,

Attorney at Law.

Upon review of the Recommended Order, the argument of the
parties, and after a review of the complete record in this case,
the Board makes the following findings and conclusions.

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. In order to correct a scrivener's error, the second

sentence of the second paragraph of numbered paragraph 13 is

changed to read, "Pt. had been in Tampa one year ago and he
decided to come back here." Otherwise, the findings of fact set
forth in the Recommended Order are approved and adopted and
incorporated herein.

2. There is competent substantial evidence to support the
findings of fact by the Board.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. The Board has jurisdiction of this matter pursuant to
Section 120.57(1), Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. The conclusions of law set forth in the Recommended
Order are approved and adopted and incorporated herein.

3. There is competent substantial evidence to support the
conclusions of law.

RULINGS ON EXCEPTIONS
Respondent's Exceptions

1. Respondent's Exception 1 is GRANTED on the basis that
the statement of fact at issue is, due to a scrivener's error,
not supported by competent substantial evidence. Petitioner
agrees that Respondentts excepticn is the correct statement of
the evidence.

2. Respondent's Exception 2 is REJECTED for the reasons
asserted by Petitioner. There is competent substantial evidence
to support the Hearing Officer's ruling.

3. Petitioner's Exception 3 is REJECTED on the basis that
there is competent substantial evidence to support the Hearing

Officer's ruling.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Sayyed
Arshad Hussein, M.D., 2416-1 Barley Club Court, Orlando, Florida

32821 and Rodney W. Morgan, Attorney at Law, 3333 Henderson

Boulevard, Suite 110, Tampa, Florida 33609, by U.S. Mail to K. N.

Ayers, Hearing Officer, Division of Administrative Hearings, The
DeSoto Building, 1230 Apalachee Parkway, Tallahassee, Florida
32399-1550; and by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson,
Jr., Acting Chief Medical Attorney, Department of Professional

Regulation, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida

32399-0792 at or before 5:00 P.M., this 534 day of

ugnglp , 1991

Orders/April

 

Hussains

_ 11 -

\l

-.,--‘REC:]\/:
STATE or FLORIDA “"“w' ~:C.‘-'§-r ,,I/"tc
DIVISION op ADMINISTRATIVE mamas; w 12 P .
. d 01"” ﬁ 3
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL ‘) L"
REGULATION, BOARD or MEDICINE, )
)
Petitioner, )
)
vs. ) CASE NO. 90-4599
)
suntan Ansm HUSSAIN, )
)
Respondent. )
)

______._______________________________

RECOMMENDED ORDER
Pursuant to notice, the Division of Administrative
Hearings, by its duly designated Hearing Officer, X. N. Ayers, 3
held a formal hearing in the above-styled case on January 31, A

1991, at Tampa, Florida.

APPEARANCES

 

For Petitioner: nary B. Radkins, Esquire
Department of Professional
Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida 3299-0792

 

For Respondent: Rodney W. Morgan, Esquire

nﬁi. 9.
ua.‘c;ay Exccutivc Center, 8-2. 110

3333 Henderson Boulevard
Tampa, Florida 33609

STATEMENT OF THE ISSUES
_______________________

written medical records justifying the course of treatment of a

 

PRELIHINARY STATEHENT

By Administrative Complaiht filed April 19, 1990, the
Department of Professional Regulation, seeks to revoke, suspend,
or otherwise discipline the license of Sayyed Arshad Hussein, as
a medical doctor. As grounds therefore, it is alleged that on or
about October 2, 1986, a young man apprehended in preparing to
take his own life, was bought by a Hillsborough County deputy
sheriff to the Hillsborough County Mental Health Center Crisis
Stabilization Unit (CSU) for an involuntary examination. At the
center, the patient was screened by an unlicensed crisis center
counsellor who concluded the patient was hot suicidal and
telephoned Respondent, the on-call psychiatrist for the crisis
center. As a result of the crisis center counsellor’s report the
patient was released without being examined by Respondent. The
medical records comprised the results of the counsellor’s
interview with the patient with no indication of any independent
effort by Respondent to justify overriding the Law Enforcement
officer's delivery of the patient for involuntary examination
and, if necessary, commitment. Shortly after the patient’s
release he completed the suicide, the commission of which he had
earlier been thwarted.

At the hearing Petitioner called four witnesses,
Respondent called five witnesses, including himself, and 15
exhibits were offered into evidence. All were admitted except
exhibit 8, on which ruling was reserved on the objection thereto.

Exhibit 8 is now admitted but no finding will be made on

 

uneorroborated hearsay contained therein. Exhibit 15 is the

deposition of Dr. Henges filed as a late-filed exhibit.

Respondent prior to Respondent authorizing the release of this
involuntarily presented patient. Treatment accorded those
proposed findings is contained in the Appendix attached hereto

and made a part hereof.

FINDINGS OF FACT

1. At all times relevant hereto Respondent was
licensed as a medical doctor in Flprida and was under contract
with the Hillsborough Community Mental Health Center, Inc. to
provide psychiatric services to the mental health center 20 hours
per week. (Exhibits 1 and 14.)

2. On October 2, 1986, Michael Burton, a Hillsborough
County Deputy Sheriff received a call regarding an emergency in
an isolated area on the 1—75 north of Tampa. Upon his arrival he
foun? M.H., a 21-year old white male handcuffed in the back seat
of a game warden’s car.

3. A pickbup truck belonging to M.H. had a flexible
hose connectesto the exhaust to lead into the cab, several
suicide notes and a girl’s photograph were in the cab of the
pick-up. Burton was told by the game warden that while
conducting a routine check of the area, he had come upon M.H.
attaching the flexible hose to the exhaust of the pick-up, and he

arrested M.H. and called for law enforcement personnel.

r . 3 —\ (f\)\ l“. ""
UV- ‘_ ~‘\-t\‘_,,

4. M.H. was transferred to Burton’s car and, realizing

M.H. was suicidal and consequently a danger to himself, Burton

concluded H.H. should be committed and he called for a wrecker tc
tow away M.H.’s vehicle. M.H. did not agree to voluntary
commitment and he was held fer involuntary commitment.

5. Due to the isolated location the wrecker took more
than an hour to arrive on the scene. During this period Burton

talked to M.H. who told Burton he was from South Dakota, he had

come to Florida looking to work without success, that he hadn’t
bathed or eaten for a week, that he had been placed on parole in
South Dakota for burglary and that in leaving the state he had
violated his parole, and that life was no longer worth living.
He also told Burton that although he had been stopped this time
(from suicide) he wouldn’t be stopped the next time.

6. While awaiting the arrival of the wrecker Burton
prepared some of HRS-MH Form 3052A (BA-SZ) (Exhibit 2) which is
the report of law enforcement officer to justify the involuntary
presentment of a clieht for examination to insure the client is
not a danger to himself or to others. This is the procedure
generally followed for patients presented by law enforcement
officers pursuant to the Baker Act. Burton completed this form
when he deliveéed v.3. to the CSU.

7. Upon arrival of the wrecker Burton departed with
M.H. who had no opportunity to speak to the driver of the

wrecker.

 

.—

8. Enroute to the crisis center Burton stopped at a

McDonald's restaurant where he bought a hamburger, fries and a

coke for H.H.

9. Upon arrival at the crisis center Burton delivered
H.H. to the receptionist, had copies made of the suicide notes
which he left with the EA-Sz containing Burton’s opinions
regarding M.H. being a danger to himself and the observations
supporting that opinion.

10. Those observations recited:

[M.H.) was found hooking a hose up to the
exhaust system of his vehicle and had written
suicide notes to his girl friend and mother.
[M.3 advised he came to Tampa from N. Dakota
seeking work and has not been able to find
anything. He stated he has not eaten or
bathed in one week and has nothing to live
for. Seemed very depressed and stated that
death was the answer. [M.] has had mental
health counselling in North Dakota at
"Northwest Mental Health Center" involving
his girlfriend committing suicide several
years ago. He is also on criminal probation
in N. Dakota for burglary and has violated
his probation in leaving that state. Found
in his possession was an article called "Near
Death Experiences" that he had been reading,
in which he copied an "epitaph" tram.

11. The Intake Sheet at the mental health center
classified M.H. as a Baker Act patient and the Sheriff’s report

with suicide nytes were attached to the Intake Sheet and

presented to the crisis center counsellor to interview the
patient and prepare the evaluation.
12. The crisis center counsellor who interviewed M.H.

and prepared the summary in exhibit 5, Kris Millrose, holds a

(u
C?)
Cu

5.4 eg. ‘3

 

master's degree in counselling and worked two nights per week at
the crisis center. His normal procedure is to interview the
client and make notes. He had avaiiable the information prepared
by Deputy Sheriff Burton when he interviewed H.H. He made no
effort to verify conflicts in what H.H. told him and what was
contained in the Sheriff’s report. He does not recall what he
told Respondent during the telephone call, but he deemed it
important to share with the doctor that patient had been brought
in suicidal and the reasons given on the Baker Act form. He does
not recall Respondent questioning him about the suicide notes but
believed their existence would have been relayed to the doctor.
Respondent concurred with Millrose’s evaluation of M.ﬁ. and
ordered him released.

13. Millrose’s evaluation recites:

Pt to CSU as a 21-year old white male,

unemployed, single and at large. Pt is on

BA-SZ via Hcso who found pt parked on state

property. Pt states he had been sitting for

a long time in this spot drinking beer

thinking about his girlfriend in South Dakota
and feeling sad over not having job and no

. place to live. Pt states his main concern

, was having very little money and no job.
Patient was not aware he could go to the
Salvation Army. Pt was thinking about

suicide this afternoon, but adamantly denies
being suicidal at present. Pt states the man
who towed his truck today at the request of
Hcsq;offered pt a job and possibly a place to
stay.’

Pt states there is no work in South Dakota
and his girlfriend just started college. Pt
had been to Tampa one year ago when he
decided to come back here. Pt denies trying
to hook up a hose to his exhaust pipe. Pt
states Hcso found him sitting in the back of
his pick-up truck drinking beer. Pt states

, e
0 J
T,

 

loving life and knows there is hope
regardless of the notes he wrote to his
mother and girlfriend. '

Pt does not appear a danger to himself or
others at this time. He is planning on
getting a job here or going back to Atlanta
where he spent a day on his way to Tampa. Pt
states having a little money left as he spent

some last night staying in a motel. Pt
-requested something to eat and was given
something.

14. Following his release around 10:00 p.m., H.B.
telephoned the wrecker company to see it he could pick up his
vehicle and was told he would need a release from the Sheriff.
M.H. then made his way across town to the lot where his truck was
impouhded, climbed the fence, entered his vehicle and drove it
through the locked gate around 11:00 p.m. The Sheriff's office
called the crisis center to obtain the name of the counsellor and
doctor who authorized the release of M.H. Two days later H.H.
partially decomposed body was discovered in north Pasco County in
the cab of his vehicle with a hose connected to the exhaust
leading to the cab.

15. Ci rs repart several patients to -he

a

isis counsell
doctor during one telephone call. Millrose doesn’t recall any
specific details of his conversation except that after H.H. had
been ordered released and he received the call from the Sheriff’s
offioe he agai; called Respondent to report the incident
regarding the'truck and Respondent stated patient had an
antisocial personality disorder and should be put in jail.

Millrose advised the Sheriff’s office that M.H. should be

arrested.

C; -7.' ( (5 H

16. Following four suicides by patients released fro:
the crisis center in 1986 and 1987 it came to the attention of
the public through newspaper articLes and to the Department of
Health and Rehabilitative Services that several individuals
referred to crisis centers under Baker Act procedures had been
released without adequate evaluation and had committed suicide.

17. As a result of these inquiries Respondent’s
attention was recalled to the incident involving H.H. more than
one year after October 2, 1986. It was at this time he first
reviewed the file and actions that had been taken. This time
frame is significant in evaluating Respondent's testimony.

18. Contrary to Millrose's recollection of the
specifics of his evaluation of H.H., Respondent testified that
he recalls Millrose advising him that M.H. had been brought to
the crisis center by a deputy sheriff when M.H. was found
attempting to hook up a hose to his exhaust, but that H.H. denied
that ever happened. He recalls being told by Millrose that K.H.
stated he had been offered a job by the man driving the wrecker,
that M.H. was neat in appearance, was not suicidal and exhibited
no psychotic symptoms, that patient had some money and a
supportive girlfriend. He recalls being told by Millrose that
M.H. was picked up on State property drinking beer in his truck,
that he had oohtemplated suicide earlier but was now no longer
suicidal. Be.further testified-Hillrose didn’t tell him about
the suicide notes, didn't tell him M.H. had come from South

Dakota and was out of work, but that he (Respondent) had

discussed the status of the patient and whether M.H. was a danger
to himself. Respondent's testimony that he learned of the
suicide of M.H. over a year after the incident and first reviewed
the records after that, coupled with Hillrose’s testimony that
several cases would be discussed with the psychiatrist during
each phone call, renders Respondent's detailed reoollection of
the telephone conversation with Hillrose totally lacking in
credibility.

19. Petitioner’s expert witness opined that the
evidence of lethality contained in the‘BA-Sz and the suicide
notes was overwhelming. These included the age and sex of K.E.,
the fact that he was a long way from home and the availability of
supportive services, that he had been drinking alcohol, that he
had no job and little money, that he was apprehended in the
process of committing suicide, the suicide notes, and the article
he had been reading "Near Death Experiences."

20. A11 expert witnesses who testified in these
proceedings agreed that the evidence accompanying the BA-Sz
cleanly indicated M.H. was a danger to himself and should not
have been released. Petitioner's and Respondent’s experts
disagreed only in whether Respondent's actions were in accordance
with acceptable-medical standards it he was told only what was
contained in the narrative prepared by Millrose in exhibit 5.

21. In any case Respondent prepared no records other
than those prepared by Millrose to justify overturning the

recommendation for further evaluation on the BA-sz. Those

r:

f 1
kn

4. The last paragraph of Petitioner's Exceptions is
REJECTED on the basis that it lacks sufficient specificity to
require rulings on the issues referenced.

Petitioner ' 8 Exception

Petitioner's Exception is REJECTED on the basis that
resolution of the issue is not material to a resolution of the
cause at issue and that there is competent substantial evidence
to support the Hearing Officer's ruling.

PENALTY
Upon a complete review of the record in this case, the Board

determines that the penalty recommended by the Hearing Officer be

ACCEPTED and ADOPTED.
WHEREFORE,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that

1. Respondent shall pay an administrative fine in the
amount of $10,000, the first $5,000 to the Executive Director
within one year of the date this Final Order is filed and the
second $5,000 to the Executive Director within two years of the
date this Final Order is filed.

2. Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State
of Florida is placed on PROBATION for a period of two years,

subject to the following terms and conditions:
a. Respondent shall comply with all state and federal
statutes, rules and regulations pertaining to the practice of

medicine, including Chapters 455, 458, and 893, Florida Statutes,

and Rules 21M, Florida Administrative Code.

records are inadequate to justify M.H.’s release especially
without face-to-face consultation with a psychiatrist or Other

health professional qualified to make such a determination.

22. The policy of the Hillsborough Community Health
Center at this time was that during hours no psychiatrist was on
duty at the crisis center patients who were Baker Acted were
interviewed by one of the crisis counsellors who made an

assessment based upon the BA-Sz and the interview, then called

the psychiatrist on call to relay the information obtained from
the BA-sz and the interview to the doctor who had the final
authority to determine whether the patient should be released

forthwith or held until face-to-face interview with a qualified

health professional was completed.

23. Once a law enforcement officer has presented an
involuntary patient to the crisis center for evaluation, it is
incumbent on the psychiatrist on duty (on call) to inquire into
the facts giving gise to the reasons for the law enforcement
officer to conclude the patient is a danger to himself or to

others, and to fully inquire into the facts upon which the crisis

counsellor concludes to the contrary. Regardless of what
Respondent was told by Millrose it is clear that he did not make
such-inquiriesi

24. In tailing to fully inquire into the facts upon

which Millrose concluded H.H. was not a danger to himself,

Respondent delegated the determination that was his alone to make

to Millrose and thereby failed to practice medicine with the

10 '=,,‘

reduisite standard of care, skill and treatment which is
recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physician as being

acceptable under similar conditions and circumstances.

25. In failing to document any facts upon which he
determined that M.H. was not a danger to himself despite the
information contained in the aA-sz and in tailing to document
reasons for concluded that M.H. suffered from an antisocial
personality disorder, Respondent teiled to keep medical records

justifying the actions taken.

26. Despite the practice at the crisis center to the
contrary, Rule lOE-S.47, Florida Administrative Eggg, which was
in effect on October 2, 1986 and Sectidn 493.463, Florida
Statutes (1985), provides that a person for whom an involuntary
examination has been initiated by filing a BA-sz shall not be
released by the receiving facility or its contractor without the
documented approval of a person who is qualified under the
provisions of this chapter to initiate an involuntary
examination, i.e., a physician, psychologist licensed pursuant to
Chapter 490, psychiatric nurse or clinical worker. The practice
of releasing involuntary Baker Acted clients after a telephone
report to the psychiatrist conflicts with the intent of this
section of the;§tatutes. However, it was the practice at the
Hillsborough County Mental Health Center for intake counsellors
to evaluate petients brought in during evening hours when no
psychiatrist was on duty, telephone the on-call psychiatrist and

apprise him of the information contained in the BA-Sz and of the

{3

11 C

0‘...
va.v

(T

counsellor’s evaluation of the patient, at which time the
psychiatrist would order the patient held for further evaluation
or released.

27. Respondent's expert witnesses, who opined that
Respondent did not fail to practice medicine with the requisite
standards of care, all based their opinions on hypothetical
questions which assumed that Respondent was not made aware of the
suicide notes: was not aware of the epitaph found with the
suicide notes; was not aware that M.H. had previously received
mental health counselling when his girlfriend committed suicide a
few years ago; was not aware that M.H. had not eaten or bathed
for a week; was not aware patient had stated death was the
answer: and was not aware M.H. was in possession of a article
entitled "Near Death Experiences", when apprehended; but was told
that M.H.’s main concern was having little mohey, however he had
been offered a job and possibly a place to stay by the drive: of
the wrecker who had picked up his truck: that M.H. appeared
relieved when told he could find a room for the night at the
Salvation Army; that M.H. did not appear to be a danger to
himself, was in good spirits, his mental status was within normal
limits, he was cooperative, and his memory and judgment was
intact; and that H.H. denied any present intent to commit
suicide.

28.. In answer to the question regarding his general
recollection of the contents of the telephone call between

Millrose and Respondent on October 2, 1986, Respondent testified

12 .1, "“ch

that he was told that the BA-sz stated H.H. had been trying to
hook up a hose to his exhaust, that patient-had expressed feeling
suicidal; that after being picked up by the police he (M.H.) was
with the driver of the wrecker who offered him a job and possibly
a place to stay: that the patient appeared properly attired aha
neat in appearance; that he did not present any psychiatric

symptoms; that patient had mcney for a overnight stay in a motel

and was now looking forward to obtaining a job: and alsé that
patient had a supportive girlfriend in the environment.
According to Respondent, Millrose concluded 3.3. should be given
a chance to go ahead, and made this recommendation to Respondent
following a diagnosis of adjustment disorder with depressed
moods. In this regard it is noted that M.H.'s girlfriend was in
South Dakota and could hardly provide support. No explanation
was offered for the failure of Millrose or Respondent to resolve
the conflict in the statement M.H. gave to Hillrose that he spent
last night in a motel and M.H.’s statement to the deputy sheriff
that he hadn't eaten or bathed in one week.

29. All expert witnesses concurred that the narrative
contained in the BA-Sz supporting the officer’s conclusions that
M.H. was a danger to himself, fully supported this conclusion and
described an inpividual with a very high suicide potential, i.e.,
a highly lethal patient.

30.. Millrose acknowledged that he would have
considered the suicide notes significant information to pass on

to the psychiatrist before.the patient was ordered released, but

 

Respondent denies ever being made aware of the suicide notes or
of any of the information contained in the BA-Sz narrative
indicating the lethality of M.H.’s actions prior to and after he
was picked up by the deputy sheriff and brought to the crisis
center. As noted above, Respondent’s testimony in this regard is
not credible.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

The Division at Administrative Hearings has
jurisdiction over the parties to, and the subject matter of,
these proceedings.

Respondent is here charged with violation of Sections
458.331(1)(n) and (t), Florida Statutes (1985) which provide the
following acts constitute grounds for which a physician’s license
may be disciplined. These sections state in pertinent part:

(n) Failing to keep written medical
records justifying the course of treatment of
the patient including, but not limited to,

patient histories, examination results, and
test results.

i . t t

(t) Gross or repeated malpractice or the
failure to practice medicine with that level
of care, skill, and treatment which is
recognized by a reasonably' prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances.

In these proceedings in which Petitioner seeks to
revoke, suspehd, or otherwise"discip1ine the license of
Respondent as a medical doctor, the Petitioner has the burden to

prove the allegations by clear and convincing evidence. Ferris

v. Turlington, 510 So.2d 292 (Fla. 1987).

,x\’\k¥,

r m 42¢.»

apparently, adopted by Respondent. These records fail to
adequately cover the history of the patient as contained in the
BA-Sz. The information contained in the BA-Sz was more than
adequate to justify holding M.H. at least until the physician had
a face-to-face meeting with the patient to evaluate the patients
suicidal potential. These records are inadequate to justify

M.H.'s release from the involuntary piesentnent for evaluation.

as to what he would normally report to the psyéhiatrist in such a

candidate. This testimony is simply not credible. According to
Respondent’s testimony he didn't learn of H.H.'s suicide
immediately fellowing his release until more than one year later
at which time he reviewed the tile. Other evidence was that
frequently several patients were discussed with the on-call

psychiatrist at one telephone call and nobody testified this

telephone call was in any wise unique or that it contained only
the report involving M.H. or anything else to make this one call
so unique that it would be remembered for a long time. There was
evidence that October 2, 1986 was a busy night at the crisis
center.

It is concluded that Respondent accepted the evaluation
of Hillrose without inquiring into the reasons Millrose
determined the statements by 3.x. during his interview were more
credible than the facts recited in the BA-SZ evaluation.

In many respects Respondent was the victim (as was
H.H.) of a system of laxity which had become accepted at
Hillsborough County Mental Health Center's Crisis Stabilization
Unit, in which Baker Act patients were released without firs:
having received a face-to-face evaluation by a physician or other
person qualified to determine whether the patient was a danger to
himself or others.

Nevertheless, this prevailing laxity is not a valid
excuse for the psychiatrist to accept the evaluation by the
crisis counsellor without a more than perfunctory inquiry into
all of the contents of the BA-SZ and the facts upon which a
decision to overturn the BA-SZ evaluation could appropriately be
made: In thisgregard, Respondent failed to practice medicine
with that level of care, skill and treatment which is recognized
by a reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable

under similar conditions and circumstances.

'7 ‘\
16 :‘ Q C" / 5h

 

i

RECOHMENDATION
_____________

It is recommended that Hussain be assessed an

administrative fine of $10,000.00 and placed on probat‘on fov ‘~

Tallahassee, Leon County, Florida.

     

Hearing 0 ice:
Division of Administrative Hearings
The DeSoto Building

1230 Apalachee Parkway

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-1550
(904)488-9675

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO SUBMIT EXCEPTIONS: All parties have the right
to submit written exceptions to this Recommended Order. All
agencies allow each party at least 10 da 5 in which to sub~*‘

A..- 5..

written exceptions. Some agencies allow a larger period within

whlch to submlt written exceptions. You should contact the
agency that will issue the final order in this case concernin

agency rules on the deadline for filing excegtions to this
Recommended Order.

should be filed with the agency that will iseue the "Ha‘ nrdev

Copies furnished:

Mary B. Radkins, Esquire

Department of Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792

Rodney W. Morgan, Esquire
Galloway Executive Center, Suite 110
3333 Henderson Boulevard

Tampa, Florida 33609

UL Q17“ -

Dorothy Faircloth, Executive Director
Florida Board of Medicine

Northwood Centre, Suite 60

1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750

Jack McRay, General Counsel
Department of Professional Regulation
Northwood Centre, Suite 60

1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792

18 ‘9

10.

14.

37.

See Ho #10. Although Deputy Burton briefed the
"intake person" no evidence was presented that she

passed any such additional information on to
Millrose.

M.H. was released from the CSU following a

telephone call to Respondent who authorized the
release of M.H.

Proposed findings submitted by Respondent are acceptei

except for:

6'

29.

33.

35.

36. '

Rejected in part. No credible evidence was
presented regarding the scope of the annual survey

: on. non t. a
o. the .-o -y HRS ,orscnnel.

Rejected in part. Millrose testified that while
he does not recall specific details of his
interview with M.H. some 5 years ego, he would

hejected in part. Millrose did not recall the
specific detail that the call regarding M.H. was
combined with calls about other clients.

Rejected as fact. Accepted as testimony of
Respondent.

Rejected insofar as inconsistent with EC #12. The
summary prepared by Millrose was substantially
relayed to Respondent during this telephone call.

ﬂ z / "h
19 _ k \ oi

Gagulp

'J

b. Respondent shall appear before the Probation Committee
at the first meeting after said probation,commences, at the last
meeting of the Probation Committee preceding termination of
probation, and at such other times requested by the Committee.
Respondent shall be noticed by Board staff of the date, time and
place of the Board's Probation Committee meeting whereat
Respondent's appearance is required. Failure of the Respondent
to appear as requested or directed shall be considered a
violation of the terms of this Order, and shall subject the
Respondent to disciplinary action.

c. In the event Respondent leaves the State of Florida for
a period of thirty (30) days or more, or otherwise does not
engage in the active practice of medicine in the State of
Florida, then certain provisiohs of Respondent's probation (and
only those provisions of said probation) shall be tolled as
enumerated below and shall remain in a tolled status until
Respondent returns to active practice in the State of Florida.
Respondent must keep current residence and business addresses on
file with the Board. Respondent shall notify the Board within
ten (10) days of any changes of said addresses. Furthermore,
Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (10) days in the
event that Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine in
Florida.

d. In the event that Respondent leaves the active practice
of medicine in this state for a period of thirty days or more,
the following provisions of the probation shall be tolled:

l. The time period of probation shall be tolled.

37. Rejected.
38. Second sentence rejected.

41. Accepted only insofar as Millrose was convinced

M.H. did not meet the criteria for involuntary
commitment.

43. Rejected that this was common practice. Acceptej
that this practice was prevalent.

44. Rejected.

45. Rejected.

47. Second sentence rejected. The requirement for

record keeping is that the records be adequate t:
justify the treatment given.

my
20 \. 3"

W“ .._- __.._‘___ .-_-

 

MEMORANDUM

 

 

T_O: Compliance Tracking File
FROM: Client Services Unit
DATE: December 27, 2005
SUBJECT: Closing Document

Due to the history and age of this ﬁle, it is apparent that it should have been
closed; however, no closing order or notice of completion was entered into
this ﬁle during the normal course of business. In the absence of this
documentation, this memorandum will serve as the ofﬁcial closing
document and terminates compliance tracking activities for the attached

Final Order.

2. The provisions regarding supervision whether direct or
indirect by another physician, included in paragraphs
f through h below.

3. The provisions regarding preparation of investigative
reports detailing compliance with this Order. See
paragraph k below.

e. In the event that Respondent leaves the active practice
of medicine for a period of one year or more, the Probation
Committee may require Respondent to appear before the Probation
Committee and demonstrate his ability to practice medicine with
skill and safety to patients prior to resuming the practice of
medicine in this State.

f. Respondent shall not practice except under the indirect
supervision of a physician fully licensed under Chapter 458 who
has been approved by the Board or its Probation Committee.
Absent provisions for and compliance with the terms regarding
temporary approval of a monitoring physician, as provided below,
Respondent shall cease practice and not practice until the
Probation Committee 0; the Board approves a monitoring physician.
Respondent shall have the monitoring physician with him at his
first probation appearance before the Probation Committee. Prior
to approval of the monitoring physician by the Committee, the
Respondent shall provide to the monitoring physician a copy of
the Administrative Complaint and Final Order filed in this case.
Failure of the Respondent or the monitoring physician to appear

at the scheduled Probation Committee meeting shall constitute a

violation of this Order. Prior to the approval of the monitoring

physician by the Committee, Respondent shall submit to the
Committee a current curriculum vitae and a description of the
current practice from the proposed monitoring physician. Said
materials shall be received by the Board office no later than
fourteen days before Respondent's first scheduled probation
appearance. The attached definition of a monitoring physician is
incorporated herein. The responsibilities of the monitoring
physician shall include:

(1) Submit quarterly reports, in
affidavit form, which shall include:

a. Brief statement of why physician is on probation.
b. Description of probationer's practice.
c. Brief statement of probationer's

compliance with terms of probation.

d. Brief description of probationer's
relationship with monitoring physician.

e. Detail any problems which may have arisen with
probationer.

Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that the
monitoring physician submits the required reports.

(2) Be available for consultation with Respondent
whenever necessary, at a frequency of at
least once per week.

(3) Review 25 percent of Respondent's patient
records selected on a random basis at least
once every two weeks. In order to comply
with this responsibility of random review, the
monitoring physician shall go to Respondent's
office once every two weeks. At that
time, the monitoring physician shall be
responsible for making the random selection of
the records to be reviewed by the monitoring
physician.

(4) Review all patient records of patients
treated for suicidal ideations.

(5) Consult with Respondent on all cases involving
suicidal ideations.

(6) Report to the Board any violations by the probationer
of Chapter 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto.

g. The Board shall confer authority on the Chairman of the
Board‘s Probationer‘s Committee to teonrarily approve
Respondent's supervisory/monitoring physician. In order to
obtain this temporary approval, Respondent shall submit to the
Chairman of the Probationer's Committee the name and curriculum
vitae of the proposed supervising/monitoring physician. This
information shall be furnished to the Chairman of the
Probationer's Committee by way of the Board of Medicine's
executive director, within 48 hours after Respondent receives the
Final Order in this matter. This information may be faxed to the
Board of Medicine at (904) 487-9622, or may be sent by overnight
mail or hand delivery to the Board of Medicine, at the Department
of Professional Regulation, 1940 North Monroe Street, Suite 60,
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750. In order to provide time for
Respondent's proposed supervisory/monitoring physician to be
approved or disapproved by the Chairman of the Probationer's
Committee, Respondent shall be allowed to practice medicine while
approval is being sought, but only for a period of five working
days after Respondent receives the Final Order. If Respondent s
supervising/monitoring bhysician has not been approved during
that time frame, then Respondent shall cease practicing until
such time as the supervising/monitoring physician is temporarily
approved. In the event that the proposed monitoring/supervising
physician is not approved, then Respondent shall cease practicing
immediately. Should Respondent's monitoring/supervising

physician be approved, said approval shall only remain in effect

m~ main ....;

until the next meeting of the Probationer's Committee. Absent

said aggroval, Resggndent shall not Eractice medicine until a
monitoringlsugervising thsician is aggroved.

h. In view of the need for ongoing and continuous
monitoring or supervision, Respondent shall also submit the
curriculum vitae and name of an alternate supervising/monitoring
physician who shall be approved by the Board or its Prohationer’s
Committee. Such physician shall be licensed pursuant to Chapter
458, Florida Statutes, and shall have the same duties and
responsibilities as specified for Respondent's
monitoring/supervising physician, during those periods of time
when Respondent's monitoring/supervising physician is temporarily
unable to provide supervision. Prior to practicing under the
indirect supervision of the alternate monitoring physician or the
direct supervision of the alternative supervising physician,
Respondent shall so advise the Board in writing. Respondent
shall further advise the Board in writing of the period of time
during which Respondent shall practice under the supervision of
the alternate monitoring/supervising physician. Respondent shall
not practice unless he is under the supervision of either the

approved supervising/monitoring physician or the approved
alternate.

1. Respondent shall submit quarterly reports in affidavit
form, the contents of which shall be specified by the Board. The

reports shall include:

) Brief statement of why physician is on probation.

) Practice location

) Describe current practice (type and composition)

) Brief statement of compliance with probation terms.

AAAA
AWNI—i

- 8 -

(5) Describe relationship with monitoring/supervising

physician.

(6) Advise Board of any problems.

j. Respondent shall attend 30 hours of Category I
Continuing Medical Education courses within one year, 5 in risk
management ant 25 in psychiatry and relating to dealing with
patients with suicidal indications. Respondent shall submit a
written plan to the Chairman of the Probationer's Committee for
approval prior to completion of said courses. The Board confers

authority on the Chairman of the Probationer's Committee to

approve or disapprove said continuing education courses. In
addition, Respondent shall submit documentation of these
continuing medical education courses in his quarterly/semiannual
reports. These hours shall be in addition to those hours
required for renewal of licensure. Unless otherwise approved by
the Board or the Chairman of the Probationer's Committee, said
continuing education courses shall consist of a formal live
lecture format.

k. During this period of probation, semi-annual
investigative reports will be compiled by the Department of
Professional Regulation concerning Respondent's compliance with
the terms and conditions of probation and the rules and statutes
regulating the practice of medicine.

1. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply with
the terms of the Order issued based on this proceeding. Such
costs include, but are not limited to, the cost of preparation of

investigative reports detailing compliance with the terms of this

proceeding, the cost of analysis of any blood or urine specimens

submitted pursuant to the Order entered as a result of this

proceeding, and administrative costs directly associated with

Respondent's probation. See Section 458.331(2), Florida
Statutes.

This order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department of Professional Regulation.

DONE AND ORDERED this 9’26"”K day of $4»? , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

ZACHARIAH P. ZACHARIAH, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO JUDICIAL REVIEW
__________________________________

A PARTY WHO IS ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THIS FINAL ORDER IS ENTITLED
TO JUDICIAL REVIEW PURSUANT TO SECTION 120.68, FLORIDA STATUTES.
REVIEW PROCEEDINGS ARE GOVERNED BY THE FLORIDA RULES OF APPELLATE
PROCEDURE. SUCH PROCEEDINGS ARE COMMENCED BY FILING ONE COPY OF
A NOTICE OF APPEAL WITH THE AGENCY CLERK OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION AND A SECOND COPY, ACCOMPANIED BY FILING
FEES PRESCRIBED BY LAW, WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL, FIRST

DISTRICT, OR WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL IN THE APPELLATE
DISTRICT WHERE THE PARTY RESIDES. THE NOTICE OF APPEAL MUST BE

FILED WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF RENDITION OF THE ORDER TO BE
REVIEWED.

 

i:

K10-

