.{_ ' \
F'L'ED

1r!r2'.entAof Professional Requisition
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION 55”“ CLERK

BOARD OF MEDICINE @610 0
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL Dav...-

REGULATION, CLERK
Petitioner, DATE m
v. DPR CASE NUMBER: 010199?

LICENSE NUKBER: HE ﬂ025366

RONALD CATHCAR’I‘, H.D.,

Respondent.
________./

IIILL_QEDIB
THIS MATTER came before the Board or Hediclno (Board) pursuant

to Section 120u57(3), Florida Statutes, on August 2, 1991, in Pall
Beach, Florida, for consideration of a stipulation (attached hereto
as Exhibit A) entered into betwain the parties in thu ahQVo—atyled
case. Upon consideration or the stipulation, tho docunnnts
submitted in support thereof, the argunents of the partial, and
being otherwise advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that tho Stipulation as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the

Stipulation.

.—r—_ﬂ—-—;———-——.——.—-.___n_._ -.‘.. .

This Order takes effect upon tiling with the Clerk of the

Department.
DONE AND ORDERED this ‘[¥"day OCT ream , 1991.

BOARD OF HEDICINE

gh:€:’f:;2’¢/”
2A P. ZACHARIAH, “.0.

CHAIRMAN
QEBIIIIQLIE_QIJIIEEIQI
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy or the foregoing

i
3
l
!

has been provided by certified U.S. Hail to Ronald Cathcart, H.D.,
c/o Deborah J. Miller, Esquire, 1 Biscayne Tower, Suite 2400, 2
south Biscayne Boulevard, Miami, Florida 33131 and by interotfice
delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney,
Department of Professional Regulation, Northuond Centre, 1940 North
Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0152. at or before 5:00

P.H., this day or , 1991.

_—__-__--_.._—

DOROTHY J. FAIRCLOTH
Executive Director

._-, q» ll

 

 

Committee. Respendent shall only practice under the auspices
of the temporary monitoring physician (approved by the
Chairman) until the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
Probationer‘l Committee whereat the issue of the Committee's
approval of the Respondent's new monitoring physician shall be
addressed.

1. Reependent shall submit semiannual reports, in
affidavit form, the contents of which shall be specified by
the Board. The reports shall include:

1. Brief statement of why physician is on
probation.
ii. Description of practice location.

iii. Describe current practice (type and ‘

composition). ;
iv. Brief statement of compliance with

probationary terms.

v. ‘Deecribe relationship with monitoring
physician.
vi. Advise Board of any problems.

m. Respondent understands that during the course of
the probation, semiannual reports shall be ‘prepered by
investigators with the Department detailing Respondent's
compliance with the terms and conditions of this probation.
Helpendent waives confidentiality of these reports as to the
Department only no that the Board may review these reports.

n. Roapondent shall comply with all of the terms

and conditionl of the Stipulation.

0--

 

0. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to
comply with the terms of the Final Order issued based on this
Stipulation. Such costs include. but are not limited to, the
coat of preparation of investigative reports detailing
compliance with the terma of this Stipulation, and the Board's
administrative coets directly aeaociated with Respondent's
probation. See Section 458.33l(2), Florida Statutes.

p. Should Respondent be found guilty of violating
the terms of this Stipulation and/or the provisions of Chapter
458, Florida Statutes, while the probation is still in effect,
the stay shall be lifted and Respondent shall serve the entire

two years of the stayed suspension.

7. Respondent's license to practice medicine shall be

hereinafter restricted in the follewing manner:

a. Respondent shall participate in and comply with
the Physician's Recovery Network.

b. Respondent shall not treat any female patient
without a female health care practitioner licensed by the
Department of Professional Regulation present in the room.
The name of the health care practitioner shall be included in
the Respondent's medical records.

8. It is expressly understood that this Stipulation is
subject to the approval of the Board and the Department. In
this regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing
paragraphs of the Stipulated Facts, Stipulated Conclusions of

Law and stipulated nilposition) shall have no force and effect

10

unlul a Final Order is entered incorporating the terms of
this Stipulation, by the Board.

9. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the
meeting whereat this Stipulation is considered. Respondent,
in conjunction with the consideration of this Stipulation by
the Board, shall respond to questions under oath from the
Board, Board Staff or Department Staff.

10. Should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement
made in furtherance of this Stipulation, by the Respondent
may be used as: direct evidence against the Respondent in any
proceeding. However, such statements may be used by the
Petitioner for impeachment only.

11. Respondent and the Department fully understand that
this joint Stipulation and ' subsequent Final Order
incorporating aeme will in no way preclude additional
proceedings by the Board end/or the Department against the
Respondent for acts or admissions not specifically set forth
in the Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit "A"
herein.

12. Upon the Board's adoption at this Stipulation,
Respondent expressly waives all further procedural steps, and
expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to
otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the joint
Stipulation of facts, conclusions of law and imposition of
discipline, and the Final Order of the Board incorporating
said Stipulation.

 

11

M

13. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation, the
parties hereby agree that each party will bear his own
attorney's fees and costs resulting from prosecution and/or
defense of this proceeding. Respondent waives the right to
seek any attorney's fees or costs from the Department in
connection with this disciplinary proceeding.

14. This Stipulation is executed by the Respondent for
the purpose of avoiding further administrative action. with
respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes
the Board to review and examine all investigative file
materials concerning Respondent prior to or in conjunction
with consideration of the Stipulation. Furthermore, should
this joint Stipulation not be accepted by the Board, it is
agreed that presentation to hnd consideration of this
Stipulation and other documents and matters by the Board shall
not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or any of its

members from further participation, consideration or

resolution of these proceedings.

12

 

 

SIGNED this :3 day of W , 1991.

W

Ronala Cathcart, H.D.

Sworn to and subscribed
before me this 3 day

of 9m £1” = '_,_1991.
n ARY 1c
OT mmmmmnonm

. . 1“”
My Commission Expires: Wﬁﬁo

APPROVED this rig; day of

 

, 1991.

George Stuart
Secretary

  
   

 

ief Medical Attorney
MBR/pc

11

PRHVISIOHB Rﬁﬁhﬁﬂlﬂﬁ HDRITORING/BUFERVIBING PHYSICIANS

Provisions governing physicians ordered to work under
eupervieion ct nonitcring and supervising physician.

I. DEFINITIONS:

Indirect Supervision in supervision by a monitoring physician
whose responsibilities are set by the Board. Indirect Supervision
does not require that the monitor practice on the same premises as
the Respondent, however, the monitor shall practice within a
reasonable geographic proximity to Respondent, which shall be
within 20 miles unless otherwise provided by the Board and shall be
readily available tor ccnaultation. The monitor shall practice in
the same specialty area in which Respondent practices.

Direct Supervision in supervision by a supervising physician.
Direct euperviuicn requires that the-eupervieor and.Reapcndent work
on the same premises. Specific responsibilities are set by the _
Board. The supervising physician shall be board—certified in the
same specialty area in which Respondent practices.

II. Provisions governing all supervised or monitored
physicians:

a. The Respondent shall not practice without a
supervisor/monitor unless otherwise ordered by the Board.

b. The auperviacr/mcnitor must be a licensee under Chapter
458, Florida Statutes, in good standing and without restriction or
limitation on his license. In addition, the Board or Committee may
reject any proposed eupervieor/monitor on the basis that he has
previously been subject to any disciplinary action against his
medical licence in thin or any other juriediction. The

 

lupnrvisorXIonitur must be actively :ngngld 1n thl tan. or similar

area of practica unlals otherwise pruvidod by the Board or
Cannittoc. Thu Board or Connittcl lay Illa rnjoct any praponad

suplrvisom/nonitor for good sauna shown.

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitiener,
ve. CASE “0. 0101997
RONALD CATHCAHT, M.D.

Respondent.

3DHIHISIBLII!E.CQHRLAIHI

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint hefore the Board of Medicine
against Ronald Cpthcart, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent,‘ and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

-- 2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number KB 0025366. Respondent's last known address ia
090 horthweat 86 Avenue, Plantation, FL 33324.

3. At all times material to this complaint, Respondent's
license to practice 'medlclne was in a probationary status

pursuant to an Order of the Board of Medicine filed May 22, 1985.

J
,

' ——_-——-—~—— _—_F~-_u. m .

Respondent was practicing medicine at Care Unit of Coral Springs
Hospital in Coral Springs, Florida.

4. On or about June 21, 1988, Respondent did an initial
history and performed a physical examination of patient #1
subsequent to patient 91's admittance to the Care Unit at Coral
Springs Hospital.

5. On or abbut June, 1988, Raspondent engaged in sexual
intercourse with patient #1.

6. On or about July 13, 1988, Respondent admitted to
fondling patient #1 on at least two (2) or three (3) occasions,
and to having sexual intercourse with patient #1 at the Care Unit

at Coral Springs Hospital.
CQDHI_QHE

7. Petitioner reallegea and incorporates paragraphs one
(i) through six (6) as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

8. Respondent exercised influence within a patient-
phyaician relationship for purposes of engaging a patient in
sexual activity in that Respondent admitted to having sexual
intercourse with patient ’1 during patient #1': admission at the
Care Unit at Coral Springs Hospital.

9. Based on the preceding allegations, Regpondent violated
Sectioni458.331(1}[jj,.Florida Statutes, by exercising influénce
within a patient/physician relationship for purposes of engaging
a patient in sexual activity. A patient shall be presumed to be
incapable of giving free, full and informed consent to sexual

activity with his physician.

r_-__ .

ﬁﬁﬂﬂ1_llﬂ
10. Petitianlr roallogen and incorporates paragraphs

one (1) through six (6) and eight (8) as it fully set forth herein
this Count Tue.

11. Pursuant to Section 458.329, Florida Statutes, the
physician-patient relationship is founded on mutual trust. Sexual
misconduct in the practice of medicine means the violation of the
physician-patient relationship through which the physician uses
said relationship to induce or attempt to induce the patient to
engage, or attempt to engage the patient the patient, in sexual
activity outside the scope or the practice or the scope or
generally accepted examination or treatment of the'patient. Sexual
misconduct in the practice of medicine is prohibited.

12. Respondent violateg the provisions of Section
458.329, Florida Statutes, by engaging in sexual misconduct with
Patient I1.

13. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(x), Florida Statutes, by violating a provision of
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

QQHHI_IBEEE

13. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1)' ”through six (5), eight (3), eleven (11) and same (12) above
as it fully set forth herein this Count Three.

14. Respondent is unable to :uactice medicine with
reasonable skill and safety to patients by reason or illness or use
of alcohol, drugs, narcotics, chemicals, or any other type or

material or as a rolult of any mental or physical condition in that

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT O? PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF HEDICINB

DEPARTHENT OP PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
DPR CASE NO. 0101997

RONALD CATHCART, H.D.,

Respondent.

SIIEHLAIIQH

ROHALD CATHCART, M.D., the Respondent, and the Department
of Professional Regulation, referred to as Department,
stipulate and agree to the following joint Stipulation and to
the entry of a Final Order of the‘Board of Medicine, referred
to as Board, incorporating this Stipulation and agreement in

this matter.

SEIBHLBZED_£ACIS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a
licensed physician in the State of Florida having been issued
license number ME 0025366.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative
Complaint filed by the Department and properly served upon
Respondent with violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes,
and the rules enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct
copy of the Administrative Complaint is attached hereto and

incorporated by reference as Exhibit A.

Retpendont, upen Ixenination during admission at the Golden Valley
Health Center, we- diagnosed with. psychoeexual disorder, and
dhenieal dependency o! cocaine in remission.

15. ZBesed on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(s), Florida Statutes, by being unable to’ practice
medicine with reasonable skill and eetety to patients by reason or
use or drugs or as the result a! a mental condition.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Hedicine to enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine. issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on pxobatinns, end/or other relief that the Board deems
appropriate.

SIGNED this ﬁg day of @514 £____ , 1990.

Larry Gonzalez
Secretary

W

By: Stephan e A. Dan e1
Chief Medical Attorney

 

COUNSEL FOR DEPILRTWT:

Larry G. HcPhereson, Jr. - F I L E D

Senior Attorney De .
_ partment of Professeonal Regulation
Department of motessional AGENCY CLERK

Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street
Suite ‘60 5 kQ
Tellahalaee, Florida 32399-0792 Q__——*

LQP/BAD/ld

mm; 3,04an _, 5’31!” DATE—éléi‘.‘

 

‘_—.__.— -_.—v --——

  

3. nnlpondent neither admits nor denial the allegations of

fact contained in the Administrative Complaint attached hereto as
Exhibit A.

EIIEDLBIED_£EH£LEEIQEE_QI_LEE

1. Respondent, in his capacity as a licensed physician,
admit! that in such capacity he is subject to the provisions of
Chapters 455 end 453; Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the
Department and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, 1! ‘proven, constitute 'violatione of
Chapter 458, Flnrida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative
Complaint.

EIIEELAIED.DIEEQ§IIIQH
1. Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters 455,

458 and 893» Florida statutes, or the rules promulgated pursuant
thereto.

2. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in the
amount of $5.UDD.DD against the Respondent. The fine shall be paid
by the Respondent to the Executive Director or the Board at the
rate 02 $1,000.00 per'yeer from the date of the imposition by Final
Order of the Board.

3. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand from the Board
of Hidicine.

4, Efrective the date or tiling or the Final Order
incurpornting the terms or this Stipulation, Respondent's license
to practice uedieine shall be luspended for a period

of two years. This two year suspension shall be stayed and
Respondent's license to practice medicine shall be placed on
probation for a period of five (5) years.

5. The terms and conditions of probation shall include:

a. For the first two years of probation Respondent
shall work in en HRS approved Aids Clinic or a clinic approved
by the Board for two years from the date of the acceptance of
this Stipulation by the Board.

b. Respondent shall present a written statement to
the Board of Medicine describing the practice location, the
composition and type of practice, the average patient load (on
a weekly bauis), the average number of hours on a weekly basis
during which the physician will be working, and the names of
any physicians with whom Reapondeht will be working.

c. Respondent shall comply with all state and
federal Btetutes, rules and regulations pertaining to the
practice of nndicine, including Chapters 455, 458, and 893,
Florida Statutes, and Rule 21H, Florida Administrative Code.

d. Respondent shall appear before the Board or its
designated probationer'a committee at the first meeting after
said probation commences, at the last meeting of the Board's
designated probationer's committee preceding termination of

the probation, semiannually, and at such other times as

 

requested by the Board's probationer'a committee. Respondent

shall be noticed by the Board staff of the timer date and
place of the Board's Probetioner'a Committee whereat
Respondent's appearance is required. Failure of Respondent to
appear as requested or directed shall be considered a
violation of the terms of this Stipulation, and shall subject
the Respondent to disciplinary action.

e. In the event the Respondent leaves the State of
Florida for a period of thirty days or more or otherwise does
not engage in the active practice of medicine in the State of
Florida, than certain provisions of Respondent's probation
(and only those provisions of the probation) shall be tolled
a3 enumerated below and shall remain in a tolled status until
Respondent returns to active praetice in the State of Florida.
Respondent must keep current residence and business addresses
on file with the Board. Respondent shall notify the Board
within ten (10) days of any changes of said addresses.
Furthermore, Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (10)
days in the event that Respondent leaves the active practice
of medicine in Florida.

f. In the event that Respondent leaves the active
practice of medicine in this state for a period of thirty days
or more, the following provisions of his probation shall be

tolled:

i. The time period of probation shall be tolled.

 

ii. The provisions regarding supervision whether

direct or indirect by another physician, included in paragraph
h below.

iii. The provisions regarding preparation of
investigative reports detailing compliance with this
Stipulation shall he tolled. See paragraphtt below.

9. In the event that Respondent leaves the active
practice of medicine for a period of one year or more, the
Probationer'e Committee may require Respondent to appear
before the Probationer'e Committee and demonstrate his ability
to practice medicine with skill and safety to patients prior
to resuming the practice of medicine in this state.

h. Respondent shall not practice except under the
indirect supervision of a phyeician fully licensed under
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, approved by the Board's
Probationer'a Committee. Respondent shall have the monitoring
physician with him at his first probation appearance before
the Board's Probationer'e Committee. Prior to approval of the
monitoring physician by the committee, the Respondent shall
provide to the monitoring physician a copy of the
Administrative Complaint and Final Order filed in this case.
A failure of the Respondent or the monitoring physician to
appear at the scheduled probation committee meeting shall
constitute a violation of the Board's Final Order. Prior to
the approval of the monitoring physician by the committee,
Respondent shall submit to the committee a current curriculum

vitae and dllcription oi the current practice from the

.—-I

proposed monitnring physician. Said materials shall be
received in the Board office no later than fourteen days
before Respondent's first scheduled probation appearance. The
attached provisions regarding monitoring physicians are
incorporated herein as part of the terms and conditions of
this Stipulation. _ The responsibilities of the monitoring
physician shall include:

i. Respondent's monitoring physician shall
appear before the probationer's committee at the first
meeting of said committee following commencement of the
probation, and at such other times as directed by the
committee. It shall be Respondent's responsibility to ensure
the appearance of his monitoring physician as requested or
directed. Failure of the moniteting physician to appear as
requested or directed shall constitute a violation of the
terms of this Stipulation and shall subject the physician to

disciplinary action.

ii. Respondent's monitoring physician shall
submit reports on a semiannual basis, in affidavit form,

which shall include:

a. Brief statement of why physician is on
probation.

b. Description of probationer's practice.

0. Brief statement of probationer's

compliance with terms of probation.

d. Brief description of probationer's
relationship with unniterinq physician.

ﬁ-n____.

a“

0. Detail any problems which may have

arisen with probationer.

Rllpendent shall be responsible for ensuring that the
monitoring physician submits the required reports.

iii. Be available for consultation with
Respondent whenever neceaaary, at a frequency of at least once
per week.

iv. Report to the Board any 'violations by
the probationer of Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and
the rules promulgated pursuant thereto.

i. The Board shall confer authority on the Chairman
of the Board'e Probationer's Committee to temporarily approve
Respondent's nmnitoring physician. In order to obtain this
temporary approval, Respondent shall submit to the Chairman of
the Probationer’s Committee the name and curriculum vitae of
the proposed monitoring physician. This information shall be
furnished to the Chairman of the Probationer'e Committee at
the time that this Stipulation is considered by the Board.

Said approval shall only remain in effect until the next

meeting of the Probationer's Committee. Ahgﬁnﬁ_ﬁniﬂbﬂppxggnLL
WW

3. In view of the need for ongoing and continuous
monitoring, Respondent may also submit the curriculum vitae of
an alternate monitoring physician who shall be approved by the

Board's Probationer'n Committee. Such physician shall be

licensed purauant to Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and shall
have the name duties and responsibilities as specified for
Respondent's monitoring physician, during those periods of
time when Respondent’s monitoring physician is temporarily
unable to provide supervision. Prior to practicing under the
indirect supervision of the alternate monitoring physician,
Respondent shall BO advise the Board in writing. Respondent
shall further advise the Board in writing of the period of
time during which Respondent shall practice under the indirect
supervision of the alternate monitoring physician.

Respondent shall not practice unless he is under the
supervision of either the approved monitoring physician or the
approved alternate.

k. In the event that -the Respondent's monitoring
physician ie unable or unwilling to fulfill his
responsibilities as a monitoring physician, as specified
above, then the Respondent shall immediately advise the Board
of this fact. Respondent shall further submit to the Chairman
for the Board's Probationer'e Committee the name of a
temporary monitoring physician for approval. Respondent shall
not practice pending approval of this temporary' monitdring
physician by the Chairman of the Probationer’a Committee.
Furthermore, Respondent shall make arrangements with his
temperery monitoring physician to appear before the
Probationer'a Committee at its next regularly scheduled

meeting, to: appreval o! the monitoring physician by the

_,__—..____ _. .

