FILED-

Department of Professional Regulation

AGENCY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REG ATﬁv .
BOARD OF MEDICINE mug
W

CLERK

 

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL .
REGULATION, DATE «5%

Petitioner,

—vs— DPR CASE NUMBER: 102308

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0034112
DAVID BARRY LOTMAN, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL 0mg

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on April 3,
1992, in Jacksonville, Florida, for consideration of a Consent
Agreement (attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the
parties in the above—styled case. Upon consideration of the
Consent Agreement, the documents submitted in support thereof,
the arguments Of the parties, and being otherwise advised in the
premises, the Board rejected the Consent Agreement proposed and
offered an amendment at the hearing, which amendment was accepted
at the hearing without objection by the Petitioner. The
Respondent accepted the Consent Agreement, as amended, subsequent
to the hearing.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and hereby is approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein with the following addition:

During the next 12 months months Respondent shall perform
40 hours of community service. Community service shall consist

of the delivery of medical services directly to patients without

/

fee or cost to the patient for the good of the people of the
State of Florida. Such community service shall be performed
outside the physician's regular practice setting. Respondent
shall Submit a written plan for performance and completion of the
community service to the Probation Committee for approval prior
to performance of said community service. Affidavits detailing
the completion of community service requirements shall be filed
with the Board quarterly.

Accordingly, the parties shall adhere to and abide by the
terms and conditions of the Consent Agreement as amended.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the
Department of Professional Regulation.

,
DONE AND ORDERED this (0 day of Q , 1992.

 

BOARD OF MEDICINE

      

ZACHARI
CHAIRMAN

ZACHARIAH, M.D.

12. Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of Care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances, in that Respondent failed to have the necessary
equipment (prosthesis) during surgery; and failed to adequately
plan his operative procedure, thereby causing complications to
Patient #1.

13. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, by gross or repeated malpractice
cr the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and

circumstances.

Facts Pertaining to Patient £2

14. On or about August 4, 1987, Patient #2, a thirty—two (32)
year old male, was admitted to Jupiter Hospital with a fractured
Left femur as a result of an auto accident.

15. On or about August 10, 1987, Respondent attempted to
repair the closed, midshaft fracture of Patient {2’s left femur by
performing a Closed intramedullary nailing.

16. Respondent was unsuccessful in his attempted closed
intramedullary nailing, and subsequently attempted an open
intramedullary nailing.

17. Patient #2 suffered a fracture of the posterior surface

of the femur during rod insertion.

L)
}

C")
C")
C)
C

k’J

18. Respondent caused the fracture by inserting an
incorrectly sized rod. The rod was improperly sized for the hole,
due to Respondent’s use of incorrectly sized reamers.

19. Respondent had the responsibility to check reamer sized
prior to use.

20. Respondent did not adequately plan this surgical
procedure, thereby causing Patient #2 to undergo extended surgery.

21. On or about August 18, 1987, Patient #2 was discharged
after an uneventful recovery.

m '

22. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1),
two (2), and fourteen (14) through twenty—one (21), and as if fully
set forth herein this Count Two.

23. Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances, in that Respondent failed to do the following: use
the proper size reamers, causing a fracture; and adequately plan
his surgical procedure, thereby causing Patient #2 to undergo
extended surgery.

24. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, by gross or repeated malpractice
or the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,

and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar

('3
C)
C)
CL)
C)

physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and

circumstances.

Eacts Pertaining to Patient {3

25. On or about December 22, 1986, Patient #3, a forty (40)
year old female, was admitted to Jupiter Hospital for elective
surgical repair of a trimalleolar fracture of the right ankle.

26. On or about December 23, 1986, Respondent performed an
open reduction and internal fixation (ORIF) of Patient {3’s
posterior malleolus, medial malleolus, and fibula.

27. Respondent should have known that a tibular—fibular screw
would be needed for stabilization during his first ORIF of Patient
[3’s ankle.

28. Respondent deviated from the standard of care by
performing the fracture dissections in reverse order: Respondent
should have begun with the fibula as the first point of
stabilization, then the medial malleolus, and lastly the posterior
malleolus.

29. Postoperative x—rays revealed significant diastasis of
Patient #3’5 right ankle mortise. Patient #3 was returned to the
operating room for further surgery.

30. Respondent again performed an ORIF of the medial
malleolus, and installed a tibular—fibular screw for stabilization.

31. On or about December 27, 1986, Patient #3 was discharged
following an uneventful recovery.

32. Respondent did not adequately plan this surgical

procedure, thereby necessitating repeat surgery.

J
C?)
CD
CD

COUNT THREE

33. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1),
two (2), and twenty—five (25) through thirty—two (32), and as if
fully set forth herein this Count Three.

34. Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances, in that Respondent failed to do the following:
install a tibular—fibular screw during-the first ORIF when its use
was indicated; properly perform the fracture dissections; aha
aiequately' plan his surgical procedure, thereby necessitating
repeat surgery.

35. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, by gross or repeated malpractice
or the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skillb
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s license,
restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

» "\r’“ ,__

'1- :i:
L’Ul-"U I I')

/_
SIGNED this 5 day of , 1991.

George Stu Secretary

  
   

cPherson, Jr.
Chief Medical Attorney

 

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT: F l L E D
Department of Professional Reguiatloﬁ

Larry G. McPherson, Jr. AGENCYCLERK

Chief Medical Attorney

Department of Professional Regulation C/ E 2L).

1940 North Monroe Street (£0

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750 Q’J’gﬂgf

FLorida Bar #788643 CLERK.___________________.

CJR/hrb/tc 9‘} £’Ei]
PCP: August 24, 1991 DATE ‘

Ashkar, Skinner, and McEwen

09;; 3

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to David
Barry Lotman,r M.D., 140 Jupiter Lakes Boulevard, Jupiter, Florida
33458—7180 and Barbara W. Sonneborn, Attorney at Law, Metzger,
Sonneborn & Rutter, Post Offer Box 024486, West Palm Beach,
Florida 33402—4486, and by interoffice delivery to Larry G.
McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney, Department of
Professional Regulation, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee,
Florida 32399-0792, at or before 5:00 P.M., this day of

1992.

AprilOrders/Lotman

T.nu'ﬂk-"r-u

STATE OF FLORIDA i". ' '
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

O L‘t‘C.‘ A, -_ -.
BOARD OF MEDICINE «2 L. h-

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
vs. DPR CASE NO. 0102308

DOAH CASE NO. 91-6538
DAVID B. LOTMAN, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

CONSENT AGREEMENT

DAVID B. LOTMAN, M.D., referred to as the "Respondent", and the
Department of Professional Regulation, referred to as "Department", stipulate and agree
to the following Agreement and t0 the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine,
referred to as "Board", incorporating the Stipulated Facts and Stipulated Disposition in
tnis matter.
STIPULA'I‘ED FACTS
1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed physician in the
State of Florida having been issued iicense number ME 0034112.
2. Respondent _was charged by an Administrative Complaint filed by the
Department and properly served upon Respondent with violations of Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, and the rules enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the

Administrative Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

000002

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of fact contained in
the Administrative Complaint.

STI'PULA'IMQNQLUSIQNS OF LAW

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed physician, he is subject
to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the
Department and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the Administrative Complaint,
if proven, would constitute violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the
Administrative Complaint.

STIPUIATED DISPOSITION

1. FUTURE CONDUﬂ Respondent shall not in the future Violate Chapters
455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated pursuant thereto.

2. EM; The 'Board shall impose an administrative fine in the amount of
$2,000.00 against the Respondent. The fine shall be paid by the Respondent to the
Board of Medicine within thirty (30) days of its imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. LETTER OF (“,0me The Respondent shall receive a letter of concern
f‘om the Board of Medicine.

4. _('._ONTINUING MEDICAL EDUEATION §CME1 QB JGATIQNS.

 

Within one (1) year of the filing of the Final Order incorporating the terms of this
Agreement, Respondent shall attend thirty (30) hours of Category 1 Continuing Medical
Education. Five (5) hours shall be in Risk Management and twenty-five (25) shall be
in orthopaedic surgery. In addition, Respondent shall submit documentation in the form
of certiﬁed copies of the -receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other papers, such as the

physician's recognition awards issued by the American Medical Association, as may be

2

000003

necessary to document completion of these continuing medical education courses within
one (1) year of the entry of the Final Order in this matter. All such gjocumentatign
5113]! be sent IQ the Board Qf Medicine, Attn; Final Qrgjer Comgliance Sectign regargjiess

Qf whether sgme or any of such documentation was previously provided during the gottrse

Qf any audit Ql‘ discussign with cgunsei er the Degartment. These hours shall be in

addition to those hours required for renewal of licensure. Unless otherwise approved by
the Board or the Chairman of the Prohationer's Committee, said continuing education
courses shall consist of a formal live lecture format. In the event that Respondent fails
to timely document compliance of the continuing medical education courses, Respondent's
license to practice medicine shall be suspended until such time as documentation of

compliance is received by the Board.

STANDARD PROVISIONS

 

5. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply with the terms of the
Final Order issued based on this Agreement. Such costs include, but are not limited to,
the cost of preparation of investigative reports detailing compliance with the terms of
this Agreement. See Section 458.331(2), Florida Statutes.

6. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject to the approval of
ihe Board and the Department. In this regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the
foregoing paragraphs of the Stipuiated Facts, Stipulated Conclusions of Law and
Stipulated Disposition) shall have no force and effect unless a Final Order is entered
incorporating the terms of this Agreement, by the Board.

7. Should this Agreement be rejected, [10 statement made in furtherance of

this Agreement by the Respondent may be used as direct evidence against the

3

00‘005

Respondent in any proceeding. However, such statements may be used by the Petitioner
for impeachment only.

8. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting of the Board
where this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in conjunction with the'consideration
0? this Agreement by the Board, shall respond to questions under oath from the Board,
Board Staff or Department Staff.

9. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this joint Agreement
and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will in no way preclude additional
proceedings by the Board_and/0r the Departmentagainst the Respondent for acts or
omissions not specifically investigated in DPR Case Number 0102308.

10. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent expressly waives
all further procedural steps, and expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review 0f or
to otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the joint Agreement of Facts,
Conclusions of Law and imposition of discipline, and the Final Order of the Board
incorporating said Agreement.

11. Upon the Board's adoptiOn of this Agreement the parties hereby agree that
each party will hear his own attorney's fees and costs resulting from prosecution and/or
Cefense of this proceeding. Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's fees or
costs from the Department in connection with this disciplinary proceeding.

12. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the purpose of avoiding
further administrative action with respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent
authorizes the Board to review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent, as well as any factual statements provided by Respondent or Respondent‘s
counsel, prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the Agreement. Furthermore,

4

should this joint Agreement not be accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presen—
taiion to and consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by the
Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or any of its members from
further participation, consideration or resolution of these proceedings.

ll
SIGNED this i Z ”Hay of

 

Sworn [0 and Subscribed The foregoing instrtment was acknowledged before me this
before me this day 2Tth day of February, 1992 bymvid B, 1.0mm, HaD."-Vh0 is
0.:- _" 1992 Bersnnally known t_o me an ﬁiho did not take an oath.

 
 
  
    
 

ROTARY PUBLIC
somavquém W9

«uni 29.19?!
‘ Asmcmtg

. . . _, m . 5m [xma-
My Commussxon EXPII‘CSI 9.2. C--‘““" 'J“
E.

CNDED TH U HU'ZKLEBEER‘I’

 

, 1992.

APPROVED this 2 day of

George Stuart

Secre/

 

  

IﬁM/ABS

C)
CD
C-‘I
C 3

C
(J:

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

PETITIONER,
vs. CASE NO. 0102308

DAVID BARRY LOTMAN, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

gDMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
DAVID BARRY LOTMAN, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent,"
and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued.
license number ME 0034l12. Respondent's last known address is
140 Jupiter Lakes Boulevard, Jupiter, Florida, 33458-7180.

Facts Pertaining to Patient £1
3. On or about January 8, 1987, Patient #1, a seventy—two

(72) year old female, Was admitted to Jupiter Hospital for

evaluation of groin pain secondary to a two and a half (2.5) year
old total hip replacement (left).

4. On or about January 9, 1987, Respondent, an orthOpedic
surgeon, diagnosed failure of the previous total hip replacement
and performed revision surgery.

5. Respondent's surgery consisted of a revision of the left
total hip replacement with an uncemented acetabular cup and a long
femoral component.

6. During surgery, Patient #1 suffered a fracture of the
proximal femur and a fracture of ”the medial trochanter (a
supporting structure within the upper femur), which necessitated
an extra long prosthesis to insure stability.

7. Respondent did not have the necessary prosthesis
available, and had to order the appropriate prosthesis from Palm
Beach Gardens, causing a considerable delay in surgery.

8. Respondent did not adequately plan this surgical
procedure, thereby causing the complications.

'9. Patient #1 developed bronchopneumonia, fever, mild
congestive heart failure and had a Grand Mal seizure
postoperatively.

10. On or about February 1, 1987, Patient #1 was discharged.

COUNT ONE
11. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

through ten (10), as if fuliy set forth herein this Count One.

