STATE OF FLORIDA Final Order No. BPR-94—O3136 Date Sviié’ﬂ“
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIC FILED

BOARD OF MEDICINE DwtomemmsmdekwbmﬂRQMMMn
AGENCYCLERK

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND SmdlwmmmmLAgnQWJak
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION, Byi:ZiiffZXéEh jz~vf77ﬂﬂ4\

Petitioner, CASE NO: 0102366

LICENSE NO: ME 003114]
vs.

MARTIN KASNER, M.D.

Respondent.
/

_________/

 

FINAL ORE

THIS MATTER CAME before the Board of Medicine pursuant to
Section 458.331(4), Florida Statutes and the Board's previous
Final Order filed in this cause on June 19, 1990 and the Final
Order filed on April 8, 1992 in related Case Number 9105202,
at its regularly scheduled meeting of October 1-3, 1994 in Miami,
Florida, for the purpose of cdhsidering Respondent's Petition
For Reinstatement Of Licensure. Upon review of the petition,
the documentation offered on behalf of Respondent, and being
otherwise fully advised in the premises:

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that Respcndent's
Petition For Reinstatement Of Liceneu;e be GRANTED and pursuant
to the Board's 1990 Final Orde; Respondeht's license to practice
medicine in the State of Florida he placed on PROBATION for a

period of three (3) years subject to the following terms and

conditions:

Respondent shall comp1y with all state and federal statutes,

~..c .

rules, and regulations pertaining to the practice of medicine)

including Chapters 455, 458, and 893, Florida Statutes, and

Rules 61F6, Florida Administrative Code.

Respondent shall appear before the Probation Committee at
the first meeting after said probation commences, at the last
meeting of the Probation Committee preceding termination of
probation, semiannually, and at such other times requested by
the Committee. Respondent shall be noticed by Board staff of
the date, time and place of the Board's Probation Committee
meeting whereat Respondent's appearance is required. Failure
of the Respondent to appear as requested or directed shall be
considered a violation of the terms of this Order, and shall
subject the Respondent to disciplinary action.

In the event Respondent leaves the State of Florida for
a period of thirty (30) days or more, or otherwise does not
engage in the active practice of medicine in the State of
Florida, then certain provisions of Respondent's probation
(and only those provisions of said probation) shall be tolled
as enumerated below and shall remain in a tolled status until
Respondent returns to active practice in the State of Florida.
Respondent must keep current residence and business addresses
on file with the Board. Respohdent shall notify the Board within

ten (10) days of any changes of said addresses. Furthermore,

Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (10) days in the

event that Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine in

Florida.

H
F I L L w
CEDRFUTEntOfpnﬁQSSOOJERegUJICﬂ
ACER-CY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATIsg /q
C‘ w Lgﬂﬂe.,.’~
BOARD OF MEDICINE U
CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL C ‘_ {§?‘-§?C)
REGULATION, DATE (7

Petitioner,

DPR CASE NUMBER: 0102366
—vs- DOAH CASE NUMBER: 88—4602

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0031141
MARTIN KASNER, M.D.,

Respondent.
_________________________________________/
FINAL ORDER

This cause came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.S7(1)(b)10, Florida Statutes, on June 1,
1990, in Tampa, Florida, for the purpose of considering the
Hearing Officer's Recommended Order, (a copy of which is attached
hereto as Exhibit A) in the above-styled cause. Petitioner,
Department of Professional Regulation, was represented by
Stephanie A. Daniel, Attorney at Law. Respondent was not present
or represented.

Upon review of the Recommended Order, the argument of the
Petitioner, a review of the apélicab1e law! and after a review of
the complete record in this case, the Boatd makes the following

findings—and conclusions. l

FINDINGS 0§_FAC

 

1. Findings of fact set forth in the Recommended Order are
approved and adopted and ihgorporated herein.

2. There is competent substantial evidence to support the-

findings of fact.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. The Board has jurisdiction of this matter pursuant to
Section 120.57(l), Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. The Board rejects the conclusion of law set forth in
Paragraph 7 of the Conclusions of Law in the Recommended Order
and finds, in lieu thereof, that the Findings of Fact support the
conclusion that Respondent violated Section 458.331(l)(g),
Florida Statutes, in that he violated section 893.05(1), Florida
Statutes. Section 893.05(1) provides, in pertinent part, that a
physician may prescribe a controlled substance "in good faith gag
in the course of his professional practice 931x. . . . [emphasis
supplied]. The Hearing Officer's finding that there "was no
indication that Respondent was not acting in good faith or was
deliberately prescribing drugs outside the course of practice" is
contradicted by Paragraphs 19, 26, 29, 31, and 32 of the findihgs
of fact, which relate to Respondent's increasing the number of

valium prescribed for his patient so that the patient could share

the valium with his wife (who was not at that time Respondent's
patient) and to Respondent's prescription‘bf percodan for no
valid medical reason. See also; Cohn v. Department of

Professional Regulation, 477 So.2d 1039 (Fla. 3rd DCA 1985) on
ID.

the issue of the interpretation of "good faith." In addition the

r. ,,

Section 458.331(1)(q), Florida Statutes, in that he prescribed

other than in the course of his professional practice.

3. The Board rejects the conclusion of law set forth in

Paragraph 10 of the Conclusions of Law in the Recommended Order

and finds, in lieu thereof, that the Findings of Fact support the
conclusion the Respondent did violate Section 458,331(1)(k),
Florida Statutes, in that he did make deceptive, untrue, or
fraudulent representations in the practice of medicine or
employed a trick or scheme in the practice of medicine.
Specifically, Paragraphs 19, 23-26, 31, and 32 of the findings of
fact establish that Respondent wrote a prescription for his
patient for 100 valium, thereby representing that the 100 valium
were for only that person, but, in fact, the number of valium
prescribed was increased expressly so that some of the valium
could be provided by the patient to another person.. Secondly,
Respondent wrote a prescription for percodan and noted on the
prescription "for pain," thereby representing that there was a
valid medical reason for prescribing percodan. In fact, the
Hearing Officer found, the patient had never "made a serious
complaint about back pain" and there was no valid medical reason

fer the prescription.

4. All other conclusions of laW'setTforth in the

Recommended Order are approved*and adopted and incorporated

herein.

I

5. There is competent substantial evidence to support the

conclusions of law made by the Board.

\-
.
u- ., , g

PENALTY
Upon a complete review of the record in this case, the Board
determines that the penalty recemmended by the Hearing Officer be
ACCEPTED and ADOPTED. WHEREFORE,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that

Respondent is hereby found guilty of the Violations alleged

in Counts One, Two, Three, Four, and Five and the following

penalty is hereby imposed:

1. Respondent shall pay an administrative fine in the

amount of $5000.00 to the Executive Director within 30 days of

the date this Final Order is filed.

2. Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State
of Florida is SUSPENDED for two years

3. Said suspension shall be followed by a period of
probation of three years, subject to terms and conditions to be
set at the time of reinstatement from suspension with specisl
emphasis on the use of scheduled controlled substanees.

This order takes effect ubon filing with the Clerk of the

Department of Professional Regulation. ~

DONE AND ORDERED this [L day‘o‘f 384543;, 1990.

" BOARD OF MEDICINE

I

W!

‘3 MARGA C.S. SKINNER, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO JUDICIAL REVIEW

A PARTY WHO IS ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THIS FINAL ORDER IS ENTITLED
TO JUDICIAL REVIEW PURSUANT TO SECTION 120.68, FLORIDA STATUTES.
REVIEW PROCEEDINGS ARE GOVERNED BY THE FLORIDA RULES OF APPELLATE
PROCEDURE. SUCH PROCEEDINGS ARE COMMENCED BY FILING ONE COPY OF
A NOTICE OF APPEAL WITH THE AGENCY CLERK OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION AND A SECOND COPY, ACCOMPANIED BY FILING
FEES PRESCRIBED BY LAW, WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL, FIRST
DISTRICT, OR WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL IN THE APPELLATE
DISTRICT WHERE THE PARTY RESIDES. THE NOTICE OF APPEAL MUST BE
FILED WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF RENDITION OF THE ORDER TO BE
REVIEWED.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Martin
Krasner, M.D., 1911 North Andrews Avenue, Ft. Lauderdale, Florida
33309 and C. Craig Stella, Attorney at Law, Suite 300, 200 South
Andrews Avenue, Mercede City Center, Ft. Lauderdale, Florida
33301, by U.S. Mail to J. Stephen Menton, Hearing Officer,
Division of Administrative Hearings, The DeSoto Bui;ding, 1230
Apalachee Parkway, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-1550; and by
interoffice delivery to Joseph Harrison, Attorney at Law,
Department of Professional Regulation, 19%0 North Monroe Street,

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792 at or before 5:00 P.M., this

[q day of Qgﬂ = , 1‘990,

n, ﬂy . :N wet}?
I ‘ éiﬁg“. ch“;
m. v

v o

“u _,-.. , ‘_‘,.,—..__ -.. _. . _.._.. -

II
$1

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
vs. CASE NO. 0102366
MARTIN KASNER, M.D.,

Respondent.
/
_____________________________

ADMINIEIBAIIIE_CQMELAINI

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against Martin Kasner, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with

regulating the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30,
Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter
458, Florida Statutes. I, h
2. Respondent is and has been at’all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having

been issued license number ME 0031141. Respondent's last

known address is 1911 N, Andrews Avenue, Ft. Lauderdale,

Florida 33311;

C»
C)
C

W! MI m4] nu —..-......

L‘
L.
(J!
l
I

‘-
H

M

3. On or about June 7, 1988, a Broward County Sheriff's

BC.
detective, using the undercover name and identity of-

. visited Respondent ' 5 office.

4. Upon seeing Respondent, &complained of

working long hours with financial and sexuall.3 problems.
.Cﬂ
Respondent obtained a brief history of~ illnesses.

$told Respondent that he had been taking Valium once

or twice a day for abOut six months because it makes him feel

good and allows him to have normal sex.

5. Respondent wrote a prescription for thirty (30)

-Q,
Valium 10mg tablets, in the name of *, with three

refills, with instructions to take the Valium twice a day,

$0
using one as a sleeping pill. - paid $30 for the

office visit.

6. Respondent provided the aforementioned prescription
.c,
to *without a valid medical reason.
7. On or about June 24, 1988, the Broward County” _<

Sheriff's detective, acting in an undercover capacity and

.0,
under the assumed name of * again appeared at

" l

Respondent's office.

.. .C’,‘
8. After a cursory examination by Respondent, &

.3

told Respondent he was out of the Valium he had been taking.
Thereupon, Respondentww-rote ‘a prescription for fifty Valium
10mg tablets, with two refills and charged&$30 for
the office visit. Respondentwrote said prescription for

Valium without a valid medical purpose.

0

n -'~.
U1;

0

n
U

- 6

(L.
13. Accompanying “on this visit was another

detective with the Broward County Sheriff’s Office, acting in
/.

,Q. ,
an undercover capacity and under the assumed name of*

- who was presented to Respondent as *5 wife.

14. After a blood pressure examination which was

performed by an office employee ont Respondent
sawﬁan (1*

together.

~ informed
Respondent that the Valium&had been sharing With her

made her feel better.

15. &asked Respondent for a prescription for

Percodan tablets, which he claimed to have used before, to be

C
used as an aphrodisiac. Respondent wrote* a

prescription for 100 Valium 10mg tablets and a preScription

for 30 Percodan tablets. ~.-.- r

16. After questioning“about prior

illnesses,

without a valid medical purpose.

.C.
18. *paid Respondent $30 for this office visit.

I
_r

W

19. On or about July 19, i 88, _the Breward County

'T‘r l

acting in an undercover capacity and

under the respective assumedenames ofﬁand d-

- husband and wife, visited Respondent’s offié‘e.

 

Sheriff's detectives,

o

133

0/

M

9. On or about July 6, 1988, the Broward County

Sheriff's detective, acting in an undercover capacity and

IL.
undenﬁ’the assumed name of *, visited Respondent's

office.

\ .
10. “informed Respondent that he was out of

Vali-‘x’zm'ﬁhereubon Respondent began to write %a
1C.
prescription for SO Valium 10mg. At this time, *

informed Respondent that he had been sharing his Valium with

his wife and requested that Respondent write a prescription

for: Valium also for # wife. Respondent refused to write

a prescription inbwife's name without seeing her

first. However, Respondent then wrote a prescription for-
- for 100 Valium 10mg with one refill, instead of the
original prescription for 50 Valium, after being told that-

-was going to share the Valium with his wife. Respondent
wrote said prescription for Valium without a valid medical

purpose.

11. Respondent‘was paid $30 for this office visit and

"scheduled an’appointment for& wife for July 13,

1988. ‘ ‘ '

V“ I

W
12. On or about July 13,1988, the Broward County

Sheriff's detective, acting in an undercover capacity and

under the assumed name‘ofﬁ visited Respondent's

offiée.

(D

C.

C;

'T)

(1')

CD

. ry examination of-‘ .
f. C- & C.
‘nd saw together. —

informed Respondent that he was out of Percodan,

/‘

had been

  

and requested more.

that Percodan was habit
forming and to use a little as possible

21. *informed Respondent that he used the

them in order to party. When ~asked for an increase

in his prescription for Percodan, Respondent stated, "You're

beginning to sound“ like _an addict. "

22. Respondent wrote a prescription for 30 Percodan

C.
tablets in the name ofh and a prescription for 50
Valium 10mg tablets in the name of“ and rfecetved
_ .C‘
s30 .from&

for this office visit. Said prescriptions

were prescribed without a valid medical purpose.

W

23. On or about July 25, 1988, the Broward County

Sheriff's detective, acting itn an undercover capacity and

under the assumed name of ~ visited Respondent's

office.L' '
24. &asked Respé’hdent for more Valium and
Percodan.

‘3‘.
Respondent thereupon wrote a prescription in the

name of V formsp Vaiium 10mg tablets with one refill

and a prescription in the name ofﬁfor 3O Percodan.
.C.
These prescriptions were written for &without a valid

medical purpose.

,)
0
CJ

C‘)

(‘n

In the event that Respondent leaves the active practice
of medicine in this state for a period of thirty days or more,
the following provisions of the probation shall be tolled:
a. The time period of probation
b. The provisions regarding supervision whether direct
or indirect by another physician, included below
c. The provisions regarding preparation of investigative
reports detailing compliance with this Order.
d. The requirement for appearances before the Probationer's
Committee as set forth above shall be tolled.
Respondent shall not prescribe, administer, dispense, mix,
or order controlled substances, other than in an inpatient
hospital setting.

Respondent shall not practice except under the indirect

Absent provision for and compliance with the terms regarding
temporary approval of a monitoring physician, as provided below,

Respondent shall cease practice and not practice until the

21C”
25. Upon ~ leaving Respondent's office,

2 _. ~ ' @"C‘
Respondent agreed to see&again the next week. -

‘paid $30 for this office visit.

26. Valium is the brand name of a drug or compound
containing Diazepam, and is a schedule IV controlled substance
as defined in Section 893.03, Florida Statutes. Valium has a
potential for psychological and physical dependence.

27. Percodan is the brand name of a drug or compound
containing Oxycodone and is a schedule II controlled substance
as defined in Section 893.03, florida Statutes.

28. As defined in Section 893.03(2), Florida Statutes:
A substance in Schedule II has a high potential for abuse and
has a currently accepted but severely restricted medical use
in treatment in the United States, and abuse of the substance
may lead to severe psychological or physical dependence.

CQHEI_QNE

29. Petitioner realleges and incorporates by reference,
the allegations contained in paragraphs one (1) through
twenty-eight (28), as set forth above.

30. Respondent prescribed the controiled substances
Percodan and Valium other than in the course of his
professional practice by prescribinb said controlled
substances without a valid medital purposefr m

31. Based on the foregoing, Reepondent has violated
Section 458.331(1)(q),“Floiida Statutes, by prescribing,
dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing a
legend drug, including any controlled substances, other than

in the course of the physician's professional practice.

OBJUH

CQUHI_IHQ

32. Petitioner realleges and incorporates by reference,

the allegations contained in paragraphs one (1) through

twenty-eight (28), and paragraph thirty (30) as set forth

above.

33. Respondent is a "practitioner" as defined by

Subsection 893.02(16), Florida Statutes.

34. Section 893.0S(1), Florida Statutes, provides in

pertinent part:

A practitioner, in good faith and in the course of

his professional practice only, may prescribe... a
controlled substance.. '

35. The Respondent failed to prescribe controlled

substances only in good faith and in the course of his

professional practice as required by Section 893.05(1),

Florida Statutes.

36. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent is in violation

of Section 4S8.33l(1)(g), Florida Statutes, in that he has

failed to perform a statutory or legal obligation placed upon

a licensed physician.

by reference,

the aliegations contained in paragraphs one (1) through

a

twenty-eight (28), thirty (30), and thirty-three (33) throughr #«

thirty-five (35) as set fgrth above.

\
,1
h- ., , w

0000

38. Respondent's prescribing to the undercover
operatives without a valid medical purpose constitutes gross
or repeated malpractice or the failure to practice medicine
with that level of care, skill, and treatment which is
recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physician as being
acceptable under similar conditions and circumstances.

39. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent is in Violation
of Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, in that he
committed gross or repeated malpractice or failed to practice
medicine with that level of care, skill, and treatment which
is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physician as
being acceptable under similar conditions and circumstances.

CQHHI_£QUB

40. Petitioner realleges and incorporates, by reference,
the allegations contained in paragraphs one (1) throﬁéh
twenty-eight (28), thirty (30), thirty-three (33) through
thirty-five (35), and thirty-eight (38) as set forth above.

41. The Respondent failed to keepg medical records

C.
justifying his course of treatment of-an db.

42. Based upon the foregoing, Respohdent is in violation
of Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, in that he failed
to keep Written medical records justifying the course of
treatment of the patient, inclﬁding, but not limited to,

2‘, 1
patient histories, examination results, and test results.

\
n
“.2 . v

OOUOiZ

CQHHI.EL¥E

43. Petitioner realleges and incorporates, by reference,
the allegations contained in paragraphs one (1) through
twenty—eight (28), thirty (30), thirty—three (33) through

thirty—five (35), thirty-eight (38), and forty-one (41) as set

forth above.

44. In his treatment of &and h, the

Respondent employed a trick or scheme in the practice of

medicine which trick or scheme fails to conform to the

generally prevailing standards of treatment in the medical
community.

45. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent is in violation
of Section 458.33l(l)(k), Florida Statutes, in that he made
deceptive, untrue, or fraudulent representations in the
practice of medicine or employed a trick or scheme in the

practice of medicine when such‘scheme or trick fails to

conform to the generally prevailing standards of treatment in

the medical community.

COCO?

C0

WHEREFORE, Petitioner reSpectfully requests the Board of
Medicine to enter an Order imposing one or more of the

following penalties: revocation or suspension of the
Respondent's license, restriction of the Respondent's
practice, imposition of an administrative fine, issuance of a
reprimand, placement of the Respondent on probation, and/or

any other relief that the Board deems appropriate.

SIGNED this 4 day of { L253 1988.

__. '

LAWRENCE A. GONZALEZ
Secretary

DﬂggA/ZL

BRUCE D. LAMB
[ General Counsel
COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Ronald w. Packham , F I L E D

Senior Attorney Department of Professional Regulauon
Department of Professional AGENCYCLERK

Regulation

130 North Monroe Street C‘E JﬁﬂJg_____q.*h;.

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750

(904) 488-0062 :31“: Z—ﬂ. %

pr/dr

 

PCP:

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION, BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS,

Petitioner,
vs. CASE NO. 88-4602
MARTIN KASNER, M.D.,

Respondent.

vvvvvvvvvvvv

 

RECOMMENDED ORDER

Pursuant to notice, a formal hearing was held before J.
Stephen Menton, Hearing Officer, Division of Administrative
Hearings, on December 19-21, 1989, in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
APPEARANCES

For Petitioner: Joseph Harrison
Senior Attorney
Department of Professional
Regulation ‘
1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida’ 32399

For Respondent:‘ _"Cn Craig Stella
Attorney at Law
200 S. Andrews Avenue
Suite 300

Mercede-City Center
Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33301

; STATEMfﬁT 0: ISSUES
The issue in this case is whether disciplinary action
should be taken against Respondent's iicense to practice medicine
based upon the alleged viogations of Section 458.331(l), Florida
Statutes, as ses forzg in €52 Administrative Complaint filed

against Respondent.

OOUOIS'

PRELIMINARY STATEMENT
N

On September 2, 1988, Petitioner filed a :ive C:;::
Administrative Complaint alleging that RespChier—

(1) Section 458.331(l)(q), Florida Statutes, by

prescribing, dispensing, administering, mixing, 0: otherwise

re arih a le end dru , includin an controlled substances
P ,

other in the course of the physician’s professiaha; practice;

(2) Section 458.331(l)(g), Florida Statutes, by

failing to perform a statutory or legal obligation placed upon a

licensed physician, i.e., the requirement in Section 893.05(1),

Florida Statutes, that a physician may only prescribe a

controlled substance in good faith and in the course of his

professional practice:

(3) Section 458.331(l)(t), Florida Statutes, by

failing to practice medicine with that level cf care, skill a“:
treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar

physic;an as bein accestable under similar condit‘
9 .

circumstances and by committing gross or repeated :alprac"

x

(4) Section 458.33l(1)(m), Florida Statutes, by

the course of

treatment of the patient, including, but not limited to, patient
histories,

examination results, and tegt results; and

(5) Section 458.331(l)(§), Florida Statutes, by making

deceptive, untrue, or fraudulent representations in the practice

of med1c1ne or employlng a trick or scheme in the practice of
\l
medicine. ‘ “'1

2 000015

All of the charges arise i: connect;:: “*‘h
that Respondent ina

controlled substances including Valium Percoce: ani/c: Pe::::‘a:

/ Ir 8
for two undercover police officers, h and ﬁ
- who posed as patients using the namesﬁani

I 11c. II

icne: presented the testiton"

A.|

of seven witnesses: Christie Dietert, an investigation manager

for Petitioner; Mel Waxman, a medical quality assurance

investigator for Petitioner; Sonja Clukey, supervisor of the

compliance section of the narcotics division o‘ the Broward

County Sheriff’s Office

; Stanley L. Weiss, an osteopathic
physician and surgeon who was acceptei as an expert in the area

of family medicine; Dr. Reynold M. Stein, who was accepter' as at:

‘4

expert in the field of family practice and family medicine;

* a detective‘vwith the narcotics division of the
Broward County Sheriff’s Office (Detet‘tige ﬁassumec‘ an

undercover position as one of the patients involved in this case,

9 .
&7 and* a Deputy Sheriff with Broward

Countyfheriff’s Office (Deputyh assumed an undercover

Q
role as one of the patients in'ilolved in this case, *

- the purported wife of $.) Petitioner offered

twelve exhibits‘intoheyidenge (Petitioner's Exhibit 12 was a

composite of six reports prepared by one of the witnesses.) All

005017 '

1’:
cu
11)
ff
D‘
m
(4
C
H
”2
M
.r.
P
\D
m
In
D.
(D
'U
0
(n
*5.
(I
p
0
J
0
'ﬁ
['4
[)1
't
'(
R
U)
'1
L
,J
{D
.4
v
'11
(D
m
’U
0
‘l
l)
m
1
H

that it was not relevart to any of the charges alleged in the

Administrative Complaint. At the hearing, ruling on the
admissibility of the deposition was reserved. After review of
the deposition, Respcndeht’s abjectiOh is sustaiﬁei and
Petitioner’s Exhibit 2 is not dmitted for the following two
reasons. First, Petitioner has not established that the
deposition is admissible under Rule 1.330 of the Florida Rules of
Civil Procedure and/or Section 90.804(2)(a), Florida Statutes.
The depcsition is also rejected because it does net pertain to
any of the specific charges alleged in the Administrative
Camplaiht. The deposition deals exclusively w'th the
Respondent’s treatment cf and issuance of prescriptions for drugs
to the deponent. Those incidents are not include: in the charges
set forth in the Administrative Complaint filed in this action.
While they may pravide a basis 5c; a separate action against
Respondent, they can not serve as a basis for disciplinary action

in this proceeding. terhberc v. Deoartment of ?:sfessional
Reaulatiog‘I Board of Medical Exahiners,.465 So.2d 1324, 1325
(Fla. lst~DCA 1985). l

The Respondent called'nne witness, Dr. Joel Klass, who
was accepted as an expert in the fieldﬁof psychiatry and in the
field of prescribéng cohtrdIQed substances. The Respondent did

not offer any exhibits.

A t:ans:r;;t cf the proceedings has been f11ed. Est:

parties have filed przpesed reccmmended crders Lhc1udin; p::;:se:

FINDINGS OF FACT

 

Based upon the oral and documentary evidence add‘:ed at
the final hearing and the entire record in this proceeding, the
following findings of fact are made:

1. At all times pertinent to this proceeding,
Respondent Martin Kasne: was licensed to practice medicine in the
State cf

lorida having been issued license number ME0031141 on

2. At all ti

?1

e pert nent to this proceeding,
Respondent mei.tained an office at 1911 North And:ews Avenue,
Wilton uahcrs, Flcrida 33311.

3. There is n: evidence that Petitioner has ever been
the subject of prior disciplinary action by the Petitioner,
Department of Professional Re§u1ation, Board of Medicine ("the

Board"). U A_

4. On June 7, 1988, Detectivew f th

Broward County Sheriff’s Offide visited Respondent's office in an

I

undercover capacity posing as a new patient identifying himself

. _ n.
35 .,,,

,5 ,

5{ Detective Trawinski had never previously worked in

an undercover capacity in a doctor’s office. Prior to Detective

*June 7, 1988 visit to the Respondent’s office,

000019

to appear at the scheduled Probation Committee meeting shall
constitute a violation of this Order. Prior to the approval
of the monitoring physician by the Committee, Respondent
shall submit to the Committee a current curriculum vitae and
a description of the current practice from the proposed

monitoring physician. Said materials shall be received by

first scheduled probation appearance. The attached definition
of a monitoring physician is incorporated herein. The
responsibilities of the monitoring physician shall include:

(1) Submit quarterly reports, in affidavit form,
which shall include:

a. Brief statement of why physician is on probation.
b. Description of probationer's practice.
c. Brief statement of probationer's
compliance with terms of probation.
d. Brief description of probationer's
relationship with monitoring physician.
e. Detail any problems which may have arisen with
probationer.

Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that the
monitoring physician submits the required reports.

(2) Be available for cehSultation with Respondent
whenever necessary, at a frequency of at least
twice per month.

(3) Review 25 percent of Respondent's patient
records selected on a random basis at least
once every two weeks; In order to comply
with this responsibility of random review,
the monitoring physician shall go to
Respondent's office-once every two weeks.

At that time, the monitoring physician shall

be responsible for'making‘the random selection
of he records to be reviewed by the monitoring
physician.

\A
... a , g

(4) Report to the Board any violations by the probationer
of Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the
rules promulgated pursuant thereto.

an investigator for the Petitioner. Detective éxas

instructei to try to obtain a prescripti n for Va-ium ﬁre: the
nespondent without giving any valid medical purpese. Valium c:
Diazepa: is a Schedule IV controlled substance that is not an
analgesic, but is a potent tranquilize: and skeletal muscle
relaxant which can have adverse effects on sensorium. It is
indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the
short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety. Individual
patients taking Valium can become dependent on the drug and
withdrawal from addiction to the drug can lead to potentially
life-threatening health problems. Detectiveﬂwas not
advised as to all of the potentially acceptable medical purposes
for which Valium could be used. He understood his instructions
to mean that he should not voice any complaint cf pain.

6. Prior to seeing the Respondent during this first

visit, Dete:tive‘ filled out a medical questionnaire in
V _ _C.

Tespendeht’s office u51ng the fictitious name . In

filling out the questionnaire, Detectiveédid not State

any specific medical complaints. The patient’s blood pressure
was taken by a nurse in the office and recorded at 150/84. That

reading tends to confirm the patient’s subsequent complaint of

7. During the Jingle 7, 1988 ‘visit, Detective ~

advised Respondent that he was having problems performing

mu

sexually and was experiencing some anxiety as a result of job and

u

anxiety. n ,

family problems. Detective -also advised the Respondent

that he had previously obtained prescriptions for Valium from a

doctor up north and the drug h helped calm him down.
8. Detective advised the Respondent that the

Valium he had previously been taking relaxed him and alleviated
many of the symptoms of which he was complaining. During this
first visit, the Respondent took a limited medical history from
the patient including questions regarding possible alternative
sources of the patient's complaints such as diabetes and thyroid
problems. The patient denied a history of any such possible
alternative causes for his symptoms.

9. During the first visit, the Respondent made
preliminary overtures towards conducting a physical examination
of the patient. However, the detective told the doctor he did
not want a physical. Respondent advised the Petitioner that he
should consider having a blood work-up, but the Respondent
indicated that because the tests were so expensive, the patient
could wait until he had the meney.

10. At the conelusioh of the June 7, 1988 isit, the
Respondent issued a prescription to Detective éfor 30
ten milligram Valium tablets with the ability to refill the
prescription three times. i i ,

11. The patient was‘advised to take two Valium per day

' as needed and one at night 5§33“51eeping pill.
\/ 12. At the tim’e\_of the first visit, Detective
~did not knew’the therapeutic use for Valium and was not

advised of the appropriate use for Valium by his superiors. In

actual;ty, a pr scriptiCh for Valium was not iha;;:;;:;a:e for
the patient given his high blood pressure, co::iai:ts cf anxietv

. a

and mine: sexual disfunction which could have been relatei t:

/
13. Detective‘returned for a second visit t:

the Respcndeht’s office seventeen days later on June 24, 1988 at

.4
0
:J‘
rt
,4
:1

h .e the patient’s blood pressure was recorded at 164/80
which could reflect anxiety on the part of the patient. During
this second visit, the Respondent questioned the patient
regarding his appetite and medical history. Detectiveé
denied a history of thyroid trouble, hayfever, etc. The
Respond n: conducted a limited physical examination of the
patient checking his lungs and his heart rate.

14. During the June 24 visit, Detectiveé
advised the doctor that, while he still had some anxious moments,

the pressripti

O
.1
O

. ‘c: Valium was helping him. The Respondent
asked the patient whether he had any Valium left. The patient
responded that he did not have any and also advised the
Respondent that he was taking the Valium as directed and was not

sharing them with anyone else.

n "'

15. At the conclusion of the second visit, the

,.

Respondent provided the patient with a prescription for 50 Valium
tablets with two refills.

16. While theﬂmeéical records of Detectiveé

first and second visit are sketchy at best, the Valium

u.-<. . ~

prescriptions issued on these two oCcasions do not fall beneath
the standard of a reasonably prudent physician under the

circumstances.

r/i
l/. The third visit by Detectiveﬁ ::

Res ondent's office tcok lace twelve davs late:
P P .

-J'v.

Du “ring that visit the detective advised

Z!

the Fes;c

reason the

Vali um were going so quickly has be:a-se he was

sharing the prescription with his wife. Detective‘
I'

attempted to obtain fr m Respondent‘E/sepa: ate prescriptic" fc:

(
Valium for his wife. Detective- offered :0 pay
Respondent the amount

would issue a prescription in his wife's name. However,

Respondent refused to accept
prescription in

Respondent stat ed that he would need to ta}:e a medi cal histor

and condu: t a ph ysical examination prior to prescrisihg anything

fo* the patient’s wife. The Respondent advised Detective

*that his wife should not be taging p

without having seen a doctor and that,

rescription drugs

althcugh the pres::ipticn
seem to be working for h'

his wife.

18. The Respondent advised the pat ien: that, while his

wife could take a few of his Valium until she CO' ld make an

appointment to see the doctor, an abﬁointment should be made as

soon as possible and that no éne should take prescr iption

l

medication without being seen by the doctor.
a,

19. Notwithstanding the cautionaryistater ents to the

patient regarding sharing the drug, at the conclusion of the

third visit, ReSpondent increased the patient’ 5 pr escription for

Valium from 50 tablets to 100 tablets with 1 refill. In fact,

UUEQ;>

Respohjeht originally made out the p:esc:ipt;:: ft: 5: tablets.
However, after being advised that the patient was sharing the
pills with his wife, the prescription was ih:reasei t: 13:
tablets. Ey increasing the prescripticn i: thi :ahher, the
Respondent was excessively prescribing a controllei substance an:
fell below the standard of care expected in this ccnnuh'

:udent similar physician under siziLa: circumstances.

20. On July 13, 1988, Detective‘returhed to
Respondent’s office with Deputy éof the E:c‘~'ard Sheriff’s

Office posing as his wife,

reasonably

'U

   
 

Upon arriving at the
doctor’s office, Deputy as weighed and her blood
pressure was taken. In addition, the dOth: perfcrmed a limited

physical examination including listening to her heart and lungs

’-
,.

‘tu a stethoscope. The Respondent task a limited medical

;
history from Deputy i and she stated that she was

suffering fro: stress and that Valiu: seemed to relieve it.

21. Deputy i advised the Responj :t that she

had been taking some of the VaLiun prescribed far he: purported
husband. In response to questioning by the Respondent, Deputy

é stated that she took the Valium 031 an as needed basis
and it did not cause her to be drowsy and seemed to relieve the
stress and anxiety she sometimes experienced. Towards the end of

the visit, the Respondent indicated he would issue a separate

prescription for Valium for Deputy éA—and stated that he

did not want her taking pil;s from her husband without her seeing

‘1

a doctor first. The Respondent issued a prescription in the name

J.
Ofﬁfor 30 ten milligram Valium tablets with two

refills permitted.

.\-

10 ";:'L.—\.‘(..

u \

(K)

2 During the ngy 13, 1988 visit, ‘h u
/

inquired of Detective ~ whether h;s pres:::p:;::s were

holding out. After Detective é indicated that he neeiei

additional prescriptions, the Respondent iss"ed a new

prescription in the name of& for 100 ten milligram

Valium tablets. No refills were indicated.

23. During this fourth visit, Detect ve tcld

the Respondent that he had tried some Percodah ani had enjoyei
it. He indicated that the drug had helped him to perform

sexually and requested the doctor to issue him a prescription for

that drug.

24. Percodah is a Schedule II Controlled Substance
which

is used to relieve moderate to severe pain. It is an

opiate harcctic and can be addictive.
25. At the conclusion of this fourth visit, the

Responaent Lssue: a prescertlon to Detectlve- for 30

Percodan tablets. The prescription did not provide for any

I

refilts.

26. No valid mediCél-reason was provided for the

issuance of the Percodan prescription. While Respondent cont nds

that the patient had previously complained of back pain and a
prescription for Percodan was issued for that reason, no
compet.nt evidence was presented to establish that Detective

had ever made a seribus complaint about back pain.

‘3 l ,
Therefore, the Respondent fell below the standard of care

expected of a reasonably prudent physician in this community by

issuing the Percodan prescription. Likewise, the issuance of

11

{36‘.U1:D

additional prescriptions for Valium in the hare cfﬁ was

excessive when considered together with the previtts
prescriptions issued.
27. Pharmacists in Broward County wil; sczetimes

contact a physician to advise him if a patient is attem;tin; t:

T

refill a prescription sooner than it should be refilled. T‘e

,

Respondent was never centacted by any pharmacist c: advised that
his patients were attempting to refill their prescriptions sooner
than they should and there is no indication that the Respondent
was ever advised that all of the refills allowed under the
prescriptions were obtained by the patient. Patients often
overlook the ability to refill a prescription and return to the

doctor for a new prescrittiOh. The Respondent specifically

advised Detective é

ﬂ.

uring one of the visits that he

0
O
L
'4
ll.
‘0
(D
(r
(f
{I
(D
'U
'1
(D
(ll
0
H
I
'0
H
P
0
1
m
'1
(0
ﬁt
p.
r.‘
H
(D
L).
f:
,4.
n
13‘
0
C
(t
'1
(D
(I
I
H
:1
0‘
'J
\(l
rt
0
m
(D
D
rf
T
(D

that the patient had not sought all the refills cf the earlier
prescriptions. While the Respondent might have assumed that the
patient had not sought all the refills provided, the Respondent

should have been more cautious about issuing so many

, A

prescriptions with refills permitted withih such a short period

,.

0: time.} However, at no time was the Respondent informed or led

to believe that the patient wasqselling the drugs to others.

28., Although both patients,were seen by the—doctor ahc

issued prescriptions durinqxthe July 13 visit, they were only

“-4 . ﬂ

charged Respondent’s typical rate for a single visit, $30.00.

12 , ,

bJ'dUL‘J

29. Cr. July 19, 1985, bothﬂan:
Deputy“ re: ‘rned to the Pespcndeht’s :ff;:e. During this

visit, Deputy advised Respond ht she hai ’ake: sane cf
the Percodan prescribed for he: purported hasten: and requested a
prescription of her own. Deputy *013‘ the Respondent
that she was using the drug as an aphrodisiac. Detective
‘ advised the doctor that he was taking four .Perccdan per
day because it made him feel good. Det e::1ve ‘advised

Respondent that he did not have ahxrpegcodah renaining because he
had used it during a part with another couple. The ReSpondeht
lectured both patients about the dangers of Perco: an and told
them that the drug was habit forming and should he: be taken for
recreational purposes. Res cndeht expressed su:;:ise that the
drug was serving as an aph rodisiac fer the patients. While
Respondent indicated he was reluctant to issue a new prescript io n
for Percodah, he stated that the drug seemed t: be providing some

benefits t

()

the pat ients and ultima ately issue: a ;:escripticn in

J
'h

the for an additional 30 Perceia: tablets.

:1

ae C

.

Respcndeh: waggd hot issue a prescription fa: Percadan ihTthe

name of *- Furthermore, when Detecti" ﬂ

inquired about making an appointment'for his brother-in-law to

see the Respondent, the Respoﬁdent replied that if the intention

1. I

was to obtain Percodan, he did not want to see the patient.
:5

However, he indicated he would be willing to see the brother-ih-

- .‘5 1'

law if he was simply seeking a prescription for Valium.
At n0 time-did the Respondent adequately inform the

patients regarding the synergistic effects of the use of Percodan

3.3

,\_“ >j

LUV’VL—l

and Jaliu: nor did he adequately ex;1a;: the :Lsks asgcclatei
with comyihing these drugs with alcchcl c: 3126: sutstahces.
Moreover, Respendeht fafied to explcr the p:ssi:;;;:y that the
prescriptions he issued were increasing or exa:e::ating existing
dependency bv these Patients on the drugs in clved.

30. On July 25, 1988, Detective returned to

renewed. The patient denied any medical complaihts and there is
no indication that any physical examination was conducted by
Respo dent. In response to Respondent’s inquiries, Detective
indicated that he was following the Respondent’s
previous advice and use of the Percodan was "under control."

1. At the conclusion of the July 25 visit, Respondent

issued a prescription in the name ofﬁfc: 30 Percodah

Percodah prescription.

:2. No valid medical reascns were provided for the

CRS that were issued following the July 25 visit.

“3 '~ I. . 7- _
33. There is no evidence indicating an; pecun1ary gain

)h "'

by the Respondent for writing any of the prescriptions in

question;. The only remuneration regeived by Respondent was his

typical $30.00 office charge peg visit.

34. The written medical repords which the Respondeheiilv*w

maintained fail to adequately justify the course of treatment of

.. h“, - C,
the patients known to Respondent as W

(collectively referred to as the "Patients"). The records do not

14

reflect repeated evaluation cf the persistent 5:7.

1.

adequate evaluation and fellO'-up of the results cf xei;:atic:

either as to effectiveness c: possihle side effe::s such as
dependency.

35. Respondent’s :ecord-keeping with regard to the

Patients falls below the acceptable standard. I

b
'1
(D
0
O
H
Q.
U!
n.
n:
,.
,4

to include an adequate patient history and ihit‘al assessment of
the Patients. It is impossible to determine from these records
what medicines the patients had taken in the past, what reactions
they had to such medications, what medical procedures they had in
the past or other important information regarding the Patient’s
background. In several instances, the Respondent’s only notation
of treatment is a listing of medications prescribed. His
remaining nctatiOhs are not acceptable to explain or justify the
treatment program undertaken, especially with respect to the
prescriotiOhs for Percodan.

. Q’C

36. The Respend ht’s medical records fcr patient -

-ccntaih a'very limited patient history and general
background inform tion. For this patient’s first two visits,
there is a brief notatieh which includes the patient's blood
pressure and weight. On the first three Visits, there is a
diagnosis of "chronic anxiety" without any further discussion.

I

On the final three visits, only the medication prescribed is
n
noted. The patient’s records for these three last visits contain

. 3 I

no statements of medical diagnosis, assessment or treatment plan.

. 8.0
It is not possible to‘dete‘i-mine from - medical records

the reason that Percodan was prescribed.

15

The Board shall confer authority on the Chairman Of the
Board's Probation Committee to temgorariiy approve Respondent's
supervisory/monitoring physician. In order to obtain this
temporary approval, Respondent shall submit to the Chairman of
the Probation Committee the name and curriculum vitae of the
proposed supervisory/monitoring physician. This information
shall be furnished to the Chairman of the Probationer's Committee
by way of the Board of Medicine's Executive Director, within 48
hours after Respondent receives the Final Order in this matter.
This information may be faxed to the Board of Medicine at (904)
487—9622 or may be sent by overnight mail or hand delivery to the
Board of Medicine at the DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION, 1940 North Monroe Street, Suite 60, Tallahassee,
Florida 32399—0750. In order to provide time for Respondent's
proposed supervisory/monitoring physician to be approved or
disapproved by the Chairman of the Probation Committee,
Respondent shall be allowed to practice medicine while approval
is being sought, but only for a period of five working days after
Respondent receives the Order. If Respondent's snpervisory/
monitoring physician has not been aEppoved during that time
frame, then Respondent shall cease practicing until such time as

the supervisory/monitoring physician is temporarily approved. In

said approval shall only remain in effect until the next meeting

/Q: 3 . The Respcndent’s medi =; records c: the patient

*are similar to those previously c'es::;:ej fc:
patlent & The office visit notes list :1: patient

ccnplaints or symptoms and no medical diagncsis c: ccnprehen ive
assessments. While Respondent's counsel suggestei that
Respondent intended to supplement the medical records with
additional information at a later date, no competent evidence was
presented to support this claim.

38. The Respondent was examined and tested by a
psychiatric expert :. Klass. The results of the psychi tric
examination indicate that the Respondent is not corrupt, but that
he is corruptible, i.e., easily manipulated and overly compliant.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

l. The Division of Administrative Hearings has

u.
C
H

isdiction over the subject matter and the parties to this

i g pursuant to Subsection 120.S7(l), Flc:;da Statutes

{D
D.

e

:1

’U
'1
O
n

(1987).

2. Section 458.331,vflorida Statutes (1987) empowers
the Board to revoke, suspend or etherwise discipline the license
to practice medicine of any physician in the State of Florida

‘

found guilty of any of the acts enumerated in Section 458.331(1)
(a-ee) Florida Statutes (1987). I

3. In a disciplinaryqaction such as this proceeding,
the burden is upon the Board to establish the facts upon which
its allegations of miscondﬁqt are based. The Petitioner must

prove its allegations by clear and cenvincing evidence. Ferris

vs. Turlington, 510 So.2d 292 (Fla. 1987).

16 -a

L:~.VL:\)Q

4. DLSCiplihary action with respect ::
7‘cense is limited t

administrative co—t‘ai"

w,--ih-. Sterhberc vs De:art-ert cf

ProfessiChal Reculatic: Board

   
   

 

r
-

H
L)
N
J‘.

,4
L.)
N
U]
z—x
"1
k“
m
J
U!
(I
O
H
)a
.5
\O
0')
U1

S. The amended complaint charges Respondent with five

statutory violations.

6. The Petitioner has established the allegaticns of

Count One of the Administrative Complaint in which it was alle

A»:
,e-

that the RespChjeht violated Section 458.231(l)(Q), Florida

tatutes, by prescribing, dispensing, administering, mixing or

otherwise preparirg a legend drug, including any controlled

substance, other than in the course of his professional practice.

There is a legal presuxptiOh under this statute that the

prescribing, dispensing, administering or otherwise pre
legend drugs, in:ludi.g controlled substances

ny-
u-

in excessive quantities is not in the

patient and

§ \-

hus without the course c‘ the ph"s
professional practice. No consideration for the physician's
intent or state of mind is necessary ﬁnde: this statut ry
provision. Since the evidence of recordjand the above findings
of fact demonstrate that, beginning with the third visit, the
medication course prescribed and followed for the Patients by the
Respondent was inappropriate 3nd/or in excessive or inappropriate
quantities, it must be conclﬁhed that the Respondent violated

this provision of Chapter‘ﬁsa, Florida Statutes.

l7

7. Count Two alleges that Respcndent v;:;a:ej Se::i::

4SE.331(1)(9), Florida Statutes by failing to perfcrt a statutcry
or legal cbligation placed upch a licensed p:ysi:;a:, 1.6., the
recuirement in Sectic: 893.0S(1), Florida Statutes, that a

a

physician may only prescribe a control-ed substance 1n gsod faith

, .

and in the course of his professional practice. There is no
indication that the Respondent was not acting in good faith or
was deliberately prescribing drugs outside the course of his
professional practice. The Respondent may have usei poor

judgement in issuing the prescriptions in questicn, however,

absent the requisite mehs rea, the Petitioner has not established

 

a viclaticn of Section 893.05(l) which is the preiicate for the
alleged viclaticn of Section 458.331(l)(g). Therefore, Count Two
has not been establishei by clear and convincing evidence and
shauld be dismissed.

5. Count Three alleges that Respondent violated
Section 458.331(l)(t), Fletida StatUtes (1987) by failing to
practice medicine with that level of care, skill ahi treatment

which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physician as

[L

being acceptable under similar conditiqns an circumstances. The
Administrative Complaint also aileges that the Respondent was
guilty of committing gross or repeated negligence. The
Petitioner has proven by clear and convincing evidence that,
beginning with the third visit? the care given to the Patients by
Respondent faileq to gee: that level of skill, care and treatment
which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physician as

being acceptable under similar conditions and circumstances and

that the Respondent is guilty of gross malpractice.

18 cr'.

l,;,'~.

(.

8. In Count Four, Respondent is Charge: with viclatihc
SectiOn 458.331(l)(n;, Florida Statutes (L95‘3 ft: fa;-:n; :3
keep adequate medical reccrds justifying the ctgrse cf treatzeht
cf the Patients. According to the statute, the records must

clude, at 1 minimum, information cancerhlhg the patiert’s

1

1

history, examination and test results.

9. The medical records concerning the Patients are
inadequate because they do not include an adequate patient
history or an adequate evaluation and follow up of the results of
m dicatio:. Accordingly, the evidence reflects that Respondent
failed to keep those records necessary to comply with Subsection
458.331(l)(m), Florida Statutes (1987).

10. Count Five cf the Adm‘histrative Complaint alleges
that Respondent viclated Section 458.331(1)(k), Florida Statutes
by making deceptive o: untrue or fraudulent representations in
the practice of medicine at employing a trick c: scheme in the
n: :tice of medicine. There is no evidence that the Respondent
iht htLChally tried to deceive the Patients or made fraudulent
representations or employed ahy trick 0: scheme in the practice
of medicine. Therefore, Count Five has not been estahLished by
clear and convincing evidence and shduldfbe dismissed.

11. Rule 21M-20.001; Florida Administrative Code, sets

forth euggested disciplinary guidelines enacted by the Board.

Paragraph 1 of the Rule state;, in part, that the purpose of the
Rule "is to notify. . . ¥iceheees of the range of penalties which
will routinely be imposed hnless the Board finds it necessary to

deviate from the guidelines for the stated reasons given in this

19

rule. The ranges of peha;:ies provided belc.

‘

single count Viciation of each provision listed:

cf the violated provisicns or combinat

suit in a hi

‘—
a.

(D

‘1)

f

violation. Ea:

.

and all penalties falling between."

12. For a single violation of failing :3 keep w: it

medical records, Subsection 2(m) suggests a penalty ranging

ion

cf

A range includ es the lowest and h.‘

the t;

he: penalty then that for a single,

\I)

a reprimand ... er two (2) years suspension followed by

probation, and an administrative fine from $250.00

For a single violation of failing to meet commuhi
skill, care and treat men: of a patient, Subsection 2(t)
penalty ranging from "two (2) years probation
denial, and an admir - trative fine from

For a single violation of inappropriate or excessive

-P
by

to revocation

$250.00 to

prescribing Subsection 2(q) suggests a penalty ranging from

year probation to revocation and an admi

$250.00 to $5000.00.

nlStI'

ative

fine from

13. Paragraph (3) enumerates the aggravating and

mitigating circumstances that may be considered in applying the

guidelines: These include:

a

1- (a) Exposure of a patient or public to
injury or potential injury, physical or

otherwi se: noneJ slight,

death;

(b) Legal status at the time of the
offense: No restraints,

constraints;

severe,

or legal

(c) Number Qj counts or separate

offenses established:

(d) The number of times the same
offense or offenses have previously been

committed by the licensee_or applicant:

20

01’

C87

$5000.00."

1

A

$5000.00."

ty standards of

"from

suggest a

\J

Uth

(e) The disciplinary history of the
applicant or licensee in any
jurisdiction and the length of ;:a::ice:

(f) Pecuh'ary benefits or self—gai:
inuring to the applicant or lice:see:
(9) Any other relevant mitigating
factors. '

14. Applying these factors, there is no evider e t

f)
n:
H

a

'1
ID

Respondent has ever previously been disciplined during his ca e:
as a physician nor is there any evidence to indicate that he was
under restraints or legal constraints at the time of the
incidents alleged in the Administrative Complaint. There is also
no evidence that the Respondent received any unusual pecuniary
benefit for his treatment of the Patients. On the other hand,
the excessive prescribing of drugs poses a substantial risk of
harm to the community as well as the patients. Uhjustified and
excessive prescribing of drugs by a physician is an extremely
serious offense and cannot be tolerated.

Petitioner urges in its Ptoposei Recommended Order that
Respondent’s license to practice med cine in this state be
revoked. However, permanent revoc tion is a harsh punishment
reserved for egregious cases where rehabilitation is improbable.

See, the Florida Bar v. DavisI 361 So.2d 159 (Fla. 1978). While

 

there is (by implication from certain of the collateral evidence)

indication that what was aired at this hearing is not the

I

complete litany of Respondent’s misconduct, there is no direct

"ﬂ

evidence of other misconduct. _No other evidence was presented

a“: ,
_regarding Respondent's skill, knowledge or performance of medical
procedures and there is ﬁe indication that the Respondent was

deliberately over-prescribing drugs for profit. His personality

21

was simply toe haileatie. Wniie this does hct ex:;se c: ‘ustify
his offenses, it is a mitigating faster.

Because the undercover police officers in this case
were not totally familiar with the/possible xedica; reasons for
prescribing Va‘iium, Detectivehﬁpparehtly
inadvertently) presented himself to Respondent with symptoms that
justified at least the initial prescriptions. It was only after
a seemingly normal patient/doctor relationship was established
that the patients sought unjustifiable prescriptions. In each
case, the prescriptions were deliberately and specifically sought
by the Patients. While the Respondent’s judgement was poor, he
did resist some cf their effcrts and warned them about the
possible dangers of the drugs they were using. Nonetheless, the
Respondent’s vicleticns are severe and mandate serious
disci_lihary actions. However, under the evidence presented in
this case, a penalty less then revocation is appro;:iate.

RECOMMENDATION

 

Based on the forgoing Findings of Fact hi Conclusions
of LEV, it is:

RECOMMENDED that the Department of Professional

> h "

Regulation, Board of Medicine, enter a Fiﬁal Order which finds
Respondent guilty of the violationslalleged in Count One, Three
and Four of the Administrative gomplaint, dismisses Counts Two
'and Five, imposes an administrative :ihe in the amount $5000.00

and suspends Respondent’s license for a period of two years

\

followed by a three (33 yeat term of probation during which time

Respondent’s prescribing practices should be closely monitored.

2 2 ,“ ‘1 :'

DONE and ORDERED this ;3 day of Kay, ;99:, in

TaLlahassee, Florida. ‘ r

\/ V ‘ljl‘m'y} VMW
J. STEPHEN MENTON
Hearing/Offlce:
Division of Ai:in;s:rative Hearings
The DeSoto Building
1230 Apalachee Parkway
Tallahassee, Floriia 32399-
(904) 488-9675

   

*4
U1
{H
L)

Filed with the Clerk of the
Divisi 1 cf Ad:in;s::ative Hearings
this day of May, 1990.

Copies furnished:

Joseph Harrison, Esquire

Senior Attorney

Department of Professional
Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street

Suite 60

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792

C. Craig Stella, Esquire
ttorney at Law

200 S. Andrews Avenue

Suite 300 Mercede C;:y Center
Fort Lauderdale, Flcrida 33301

Kenneth E. Easely
General Counsel
Department of Professional

Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street .
Suite 60 "
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792

Dorothy Faircloth

Executive Director ‘

Department of Professional 4
Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street a

Suite 60

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792 4

23

IN THE DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINE‘FPS

STATE OF FLORIDA

MARTIN KASNER, M.D.,

Petitioner,
DPR CASE NO. 91-05202
vs. LICENSE NO. ME 0031141
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION
Respondent.

/

 

PETITION FOR REINSTATEMENT

Petitioner, MARTIN KASNER, M.D., moves for reinstatement of his medical license
and as grounds would show:

1. By Final Order entered June 12, 1990, petitioner’s license to practice medicine
in this state was suspended for two years.

2. Pursuant to a Final Order entered April 8, 1992, reinstatement of petitioner’s
license to practice medicine was conditioned. on the payment in full of a $5,000 ﬁne.

3. Petitioner has paid the $5,000 ﬁne in full.

4. Two years has passed since entry of the order of suspension and petitioner has
complied with all the terms and conditions set forth in the Final Order dated June 12, 1990 as
amended by the Final Order dated April 8, 1922. The Final Orders are not based on Petitioner’s
ability to safely engage in the practice of medicine and reinstatement is not conditioned in the
Orders upon Petitioner demonsttgting‘ the ability to safely engage in the practice of medicine.

Accordingly. petitioner is entitled to automatic reinstatement of his license pursuant to Rule

21M-20.003(2)(a). Florida Administrative Code.

Amlong & Amlong, RA.

SECOND noon, :0: NORTHEAST THIRD AVENLJE, FORT LAUDERDALE FLORIDA 33301 - (305) 462-!983

5. Alternatiwly. pclitioncx‘ is capable of safely engaging in the practice of medicine

and is cnmicd m rcinstummnt m m,» medical license pursuant m Ru}; ZiM-Z().()(J3(2Mh).

Florida Administrative Code.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
N

Regulation. 1940 North Monroe SIrcct. Tallahassee, Florida 32399-079; "

August, 1993.

AMLONG & AMLONG, P.A.
Attorneys for Petitioner

101 Northeast Third Avenue
Second Floor

   

  

. en 'lman Amlong
Florida Bar # 275565

1005.93.01
KCA:keb
8/2/93

Q: \KASNER\PETITION

2

Amhmg & Amlong, PA.

SECOND FLOOR, IO! NORTHEAST THIRD AVENUE. FORT LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA 33300 - (305)4624963

of the Board or the Probation Committee. Absent said agproval,

Resgondent shall not Eractice medicine until a monitoring[
sugervising Ehxsician is aggroved.

In view of the need for ongoing and continuous monitoring

 

or supervision, Respondent shall also submit the curriculum Vitae
and name of an alternate supervisory/monitoring physician to be

approved by the Board or its Probation Committee. Such physician

shall be licensed pursuant to Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and
shall have the same duties and responsibilities as specified for
Respondent's monitoring/supervising physician, during those
periods of time when Respondent's monitoring/supervisory

physician is temporarily unable to provide supervision. Prior

supervisory physician, Respondent shall so advise the Board in
writing., Respondent shall further advise the Board in writing
of the period of time during which Respondent shall practice
under the supervision of the alternate monitoring/supervisory

physician. Respondent shall not practice unless he is under

(1) Brief statement 9f why physician is on probation.
(2) Practice Iﬁcatioﬁ .

(3) Describe current practice (type and composition)
(4) Brief statement of compliance with probation terms.

(5) Describe relationship with monitorihg/Supervisory
physician.
(6) Advise Board of any problems.

Respondent shall attend 20 hours of Category I Continuing
Medical Education courses per year in the area of general
medicine. Furthermore, Respondent shall enroll in and complete

the next available course of "Protecting Your Medical Practice:

Clinical, Legal and Ethical Issues In Prescribing Abusable

with the Florida Medical Association. Respondent shall submit
a written plan to the Chairman of the Probation Committee for
approval prior to completion of said courses. The Board confers
authority on the Chairman of the Probation Committee to approve
or disapprove said continuing education courses. In addition,
Respondent shall submit documentation of these continuing medical“
education courses in his quarterly reports. These hours shall
be in addition to those hours required for renewal of licensure.
Unless otherwise approved by the Board or the Chairman of the
Probation Committee, said continuing education courses shall
consist of a formal live lecture format.

Respondent shall not prescribe!_administer, dispense, mix,
or order Schedule II through Y controlled substances, other than

in the hospital setting, for the term of probation.

(1) Respondent shallxutilize sequentially
numbered triplicate prescriptions in

the prescribing of said controlled
substances.

(2) Respondent shall, within two weeks after
issuance, provide one copy of each
presCription for said controlled substances
to his monitoring/supervising physician.

(3) Respondent shall maintain one copy of each

prescription for said controlled substances
in the patient‘s medical record. This copy
may be a xerox copy.

During this period of probation, semi—annual investigative
reports will be compiled by the DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION concerning Respondent's compliance
with the terms and conditions of probation and the rules and
statutes regulating the practice of medicine.

Respondent shall comply with the terms and conditions of
his criminal probation.

Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply with
the terms of the Order issued based on this proceeding. Such
costs include, but are not limited to, the cost of preparation
of investigative reports detailing compliance with the terms of
this Order, the cost of analysis of any blood or urine specimens
submitted pursuant to the Order entered as a result of this
proceeding, and administrative costs directly associated withrﬂ
Respondent‘s probation. See Section 458233l(2), Florida
Statutes.

This Order takes effect uponlfiling with the Clerk of the

Department of Business and Professional Regulation.

1994.

a e L; \
65A " ‘ " f )MA/t>'

EDWARD A. DAU R, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

 

 
    

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO JUDICIAL REVIEW
__________________________________‘

A PARTY WHO IS ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THIS FINAL ORDER IS ENTITLED
TO JUDICIAL REVIEW PURSUANT TO SECTION 120.68, FLORIDA STATUTES,
IF REVIEW OF THE FINAL AGENCY DECISION WOULD NOT PROVIDE AN
ADEQUATE REMEDY. REVIEW PROCEEDINGS ARE GOVERNED BY THE FLORIDA
RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE. SUCH PROCEEDINGS ARE COMMENCED BY
FILING ONE COPY OF A NOTICE OF APPEAL WITH THE AGENCY CLERK OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION AND A
SECOND COPY, ACCOMPANIED BY FILING FEES PRESCRIBED BY LAW, WITH
THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL, FIRST DISTRICT, OR WITH THE
DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL IN THE APPELLATE DISTRICT WHERE THE
PARTY RESIDES. THE NOTICE OF APPEAL MUST BE FILED WITHIN THIRTY
(30) DAYS OF RENDITION OF THE ORDER TO BE REVIEWED.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

 

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by Certified Mail to Martin
Kasner, M.D. c/o Karen Coolman Amlong, Esquire,, 500 N.E. 4th
Street, Second Floor, Ft. Lauaerdale, Florida 33301-1154, and
by interoffice delivery to Lagry~G. McPherson, Chief Attorney,
Department of Business and Professidnél Fiegulation, 1940 North
Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Flbrida 32399—0792, at or before 5:00

I

p.m., this day of , 1994.

 

AMENDED CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
__________________________

I HERFD” ”"RTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing

Order has bn"ﬁ provided by certified mail to Martin Kasner, M.D.,

3550 Galt 02¢“n Dr., #1809, Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33308, and to Karen

Coolman Amlcng, Esq., 500 N.E. 4th St., Second Floor, Ft.

Lauderdale, FL 33301-1154, and by interoffice delivery to Larry G.

McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney, Department of Business and

Professions1 “ﬁzulation, 1940 North Monroe St., Tallahassee, FL

_ (96%
32399-0792 ‘t or before 5:00 p.m., this day of

Egﬂzg , 1994.

“wmms_.::;’\‘_;_~\“ C

 

