,-—‘

.11»

FILED

Department of Professional Regufatfon

AGEN
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION CYCLERK
BOARD OF MEDICINE

 

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL UERK___._
REGULATION, g) “‘“
DATE e.____LJZKZLZ£EEH_____h____
Petitioner, (D
evs- DPR CASE NUMBER: 0104418

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0021459
FREDERIC JOEL COHEN, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

THIS CAUSE came before the Board of Medicine (Board) on
August 4, 1990, in Jacksonville, Florida, for the purpose of
considering Respondent's Motion To Vacate Oral Stipulation and
for a further Order accepting Respondent's application for
voluntary relinquiehment and affidavit in support of motion to
vacate (attached hereto as Exhibits A and B, respectively).

This cause was previously before the Board on June 1, 1990.
On June 5, 1990, the motion and affidavit (Exhibits A and B) were
served on the office of the Board prior to the entry of the Final
Order. Hewever, they were not called to the attention of the
Board or acted upon by the Board and the Final Order reflecting
the action taken on June 1, 1990, waa'filed on June 19, 1990.

Upon consideration of the motion and affidavit (Exhibits A
and B) the evidence of record, the testimony, and being otherwise

fully advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED

That the Final Order filed June 16, 1990, is VACATED because
of the unusual circumstances of the timing of the serving of the
motion and affidavit and the filing of the Final Order. In lieu
of the Final Order filed on June 16, 1990, the Board enters this
Final Order to GRANT the offer of Respondent to voluntarily
relinquish his license to practice medicine with the specific
agreement that he shall not reapply for medical licensure in the
State of Florida at any time in the future.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the
Department of Professional Regulation.

DONE and ORDERED this (3 day of Q-éfzgﬁt , 1990.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

  

 

T C.S. SKINNER, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
vs. DPR CASE NO. 0104418
FREDRIC JOEL COHEN, M.D.,

Respondent.

SILEULaIlQH

Fredric Joel Cohen, M.D., referred to as Respondent, and
the Department of Professional Regulation, referred to as
Department, stipulate and agree to the following joint
Stipulation and Final Order of the Board of Mediciner referred
to as Board, incorporating this Stipulation and agreement in
this case.

SIIEHLAIEDiEACIS

1. At all times material to this matter, Respondent
was a licensed physician in the State of Florida having been
issued license number ME 0021459.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative
Complaint filed by the Department and properly served upon
Respondent with violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes,
and the rules enacted purSuant thereto. A true and correct
copy of the Administrative Complaint is attached and

incorporated by reference as Exhibit A.

3. Heepondent neither admits nor denies the
allegations of fact contained in the Administrative Complaint
attached as Exhibit A.

SIIRULAIED_CQHCLHSIQHS,QE_LAH

1. Respondent, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, admits that in such capacity he is subject to the
provisions of Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the
jurisdiction of the Department and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, attached hereto as Exhibit “A", if
proven, constitute violations of Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative Complaint.

SIIEHLAIED_DISEQSIIIQH

1. Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters
455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated
pursuant thereto.

2. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in
the amount of $2,000 (two thousand dollars) against the
Respondent. The fine shall be paid by the Respondent to the
Executive Director of the Board within 30 days of its
imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. Prior to practicing in the State of Florida,
Respondent shall demonstrate that his license to practice
medicine in the State of New York is free of all restrictions.

4. Respondent shall complete 20 hours (3f Category I
Continuing Medical Education in the area. of Medical Ethics

within 12 months of the filing of the Final Order

incorporating the terms of this Stipulation. Such continuing
education shall be in addition to that amount required for
renewal of licensure.

5. It is expressly understood that this Stipulation is
subject to the approval of the Board and the Department. In
this regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing
paragraphs of the Stipulated Facts, Stipulated Conclusions of
Law and Stipulated Disposition) shall have no force and effect
unless a Final Order is entered incorporating the terms of
this Stipulation, by the Board.

6. Should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement
made jJI furtherance 13f this Stipulation, by' the Respondent
may be used as direct evidence against the Respondent in any
proceeding; however, such statements may be used by the
Petitioner for impeachment only.

7. Respondent and the Department fully understand that
this joint Stipulation and subsequent Final Order
incorporating same will in no way preclude additional
proceedings by the Board and/or the Department against the
Respondent for acts or omissions not specifically set forth in

the Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit "A" herein.

8. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation,
Respondent expressly waives all further procedural steps, and
expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to
otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the joint
Stipulation of facts, conclusions of law and imposition of
discipline, and the Final Order of the Board incorporating
said Stipulation.

9. Upon the Board‘s adoption of this Stipulation, the
parties hereby agree that each party will bear his own
attorney‘s fees and costs resulting from prosecution and/or
defense of this proceeding. Respondent waives the right to
seek any attorney's fees or costs from the Department in
connection with this disciplinary proceeding.

10. This Stipulation is executed by the Respondent for
the purpose of avoiding further administrative action with
respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes
the Board to review and examine all investigative file
materials concerning Respondent prior to or in conjunction
with consideration. of the Stipulation. Furthermore, should
this joint Stipulation not be accepted by the Board, it is
agreed that presentation to and consideration of this
Stipulation and other documents and matters by the Board shall

not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or any of its

members from further participation, consideration or

resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED this 54’ day of AF“/ , 19W).

Sworn to and subsgribed
before me this 4' day

, 1%333

 

   

My Commission Expires: . ‘ !
APPROVED this ,T-EgO’Mday of W 1989.
——-_+_—._..~_._—__‘_

Larry Gonzalez

iﬁpﬁetary
-_;——/\’? fl/

By: Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Attorney
Medical Section

 

   

1154

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

vs. CASE NO. 0104418

FREDRIC JOEL COHEN, M.D.
Respondent,
/
ADMIHLSIBATIEE_CQHELAIHI

COMES NOW the Petitioner,r Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as “Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against Fredric Joel Cohen, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent", and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with
regulating the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30,
Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter
458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida having
been issued license number ME 0021459. Respondent's last
known address is 200 Butler Street, West Palm Beach, Florida
33407.

3. The New York State Education Department is the
licensing authority in the State of New York, authorized to

take disciplinary action against the licenses of physicians in

that state.

4. On or about January 20, 1983, the New York State
Education Department issued a Censure and Reprimand in which
Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State of New
York was placed on probation for one year.

Said disciplinary action was based upon the Respondent's
failure to accurately maintain patient records.

5. On or about July 27, 1988, the Board of Medical
Quality Assurance of the State of California issued a public
reprimand in which Respondent's license to practice medicine
in the State of California was restricted until the Respondent
notifies the Division of Medical Quality Assurance, in
writing, of his intention to practice medicine in California
and passes an oral clinical exam. Said disciplinary action
was based upon the Respondent's license in the State of New
York being placed on probation and the Respondent receiving a
censure and reprimand from the State of New York.

6. Based on the foregoing, Respondent is in violation
of Section 458.331(l)(b), Florida Statutes, in that he is
guilty of having a license to practice medicine revoked,
suspended, or otherwise acted against, including the denial of
licensure, by the licensing authority of any state, territory,
or country. The licensing authority‘s acceptance of a
physician's relinquishment of a license, stipulation, consent
order, or other settlement, offered in response to or in

anticipation of the filing of administrative charges against

the physician‘s license, shall be construed as action against
the physician's license.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board
of Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the
following penalties: revocation or suspension of the
Respondent‘s licenSe, restriction of the Respondent's
practice, imposition of an administrative fine, issuance of a
reprimand, placement of the Respondent on probation, and/or

any other relief that the Board deems appropriate.

SIGNED this {ﬂday of :gfﬁﬁgﬁ , 1989.

LARRY GONZALEZ
Secretary

«@533 gm m

Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Don A. Hyman

Senior Attorney F I L E D

Department of Professional pmmqmmungmﬁﬁgmemgmﬂmn
Regulation 7 AGENCYCLERK

130 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750
(904) 488- 0062 5Q Gﬂvw
sbﬁ

H /ABS /AL CLERK

4/3/89 '._ <1 (‘
PCP: DEF:

 

