VL%E;;L»
FILED

nﬂparlmem or Prawn run 1! nﬂﬁuhtinn
AGENCYCLEH€
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

BOARD OF MEDICINE 5: ll? E

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL miR”
REGULATION, Q; ~
DATE
Petitioner,
_u5- DPR CASE NUHBER: U105095

LICENSE NUMBER: HE Gﬂ35912
EDWARD F. PHILLIPSIr M.ﬂ.,

Reapondent.

f
I’IFUEL £35425}?

——.,———-.———mn_——___

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine {Board}
pursuant to Section 12$.5T13], Florida Statutes, on June 2, 19H?Ir
in Tallahassee, Florida, for censideratien of a Stipulation
{attached heretD as Exhibit A] entered into between the parties
in the abovevstyled case. Upon consideration of the Stipulation,Ir
the datumentﬁ submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises, the Beard
rejected the Stipulation proposed and offered an amendment at Lhe
hearingr which amendment was accepted without objection by the
parties.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulation as
submitted be and is hereby approved and, adapted in LuLu and
incorporated by reference herein with the follewing addition:

Prior to October 1, 1989, Respondent must make a

presentation at a noontime conference at a hospital of his Chniee

concerning license renewal. Documentation Of this presentation

must be submitted to the Department 01 Professional Regulation by

the hospital chief Of stafi.

Accordingly, the parties shall adhere to and abide by all of

the terms and conditions of the Stipulation as amended.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department.

DUNE AND ORDERED this L5 day Gf “jggﬂg , 1939.
EUARD D MEDICINE

 

VICE CHE RHAN

gEngrIcnmg 9F saavgqg

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and CDrrect COPY 0f the
foregoing Order has been pravided by certified mail to Edward F.
Phillips, GZBU S.W. TE Streat #40?, South Miami, Florida 33143
and Deborah J. Miller, Attorney at Law, DunnIr Dresnick, Lodish &
Miller, Una Biscayne Tower, Suite Edﬂﬂ, Two South Biscayne
Boulevard, Miami, Florida 33131, and by interoffice delivery t0
Larry McPherﬁon, Attﬂrney at Law, Dapartment of Professional
Regulation, Northwmod Centre, 194D Ncrth Monroe Street,

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-UTSD, at or before 5:06 P.M., this

4427. day of ﬁwr 1939.

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
VS. DPR CASE NO. Dlﬂﬁﬂﬁﬁ

EDWARD F. PHILLIPS, M.D.,

Respondent.

EIIEHLEIIQH

EDWARD F. PHILLIPS, M.D., reﬁsrred to as Respondent, and the
Degartmsnt of Professional Regulation, referred to as Department,
stipulate and agree to the fsllswing joint Stipulation and Final
Drdsr Of the Board Of Medicine, referred t6 as Basrd,
incorporating this Stipulatisn and agreement in this sass.

EILEHLEEED_EACIS

1. At all times material to this matter, Respondent was a
licensed physician in the State sf Florida having been issued
license number ME 0035912.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly Served up0n Respsndent with
violations sf Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules
enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the
Administrative Complaint is attached and insorporated by

reference as Exhibit A.

3. Respendent neither admits nor denies the allegations
ef feet centained in the Administrative Complaint attached as
Exhibit A.

EIIEﬂLEIﬁﬂeﬂﬂﬂﬂLﬂilﬂﬂﬂ_ﬂE_Lﬂﬂ

1. Respondent, in his capacity as a licensed physician,
admits that in such :agacity he is Subject to the provisions of
Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes,r and the jurisdiction of
the Department and the Beard.

2. Eespendent admits that the facts set forth in the
foregoing Stipulated Facts, if preven, constitute vielatiens of
Chapter 458, Flerida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative
Complaint.

EIIEHLEIEﬂnﬂlﬁEﬂElIlﬂH

1. Respondent shall not in the future vielate Chapters
455, 458 and 893} Flerida Statutes, or the rules promulgated
pursuant thereto.

2. The Respondent shall reimburse the Bepertment
administrative eests in the amount of $2,950.0D. This amount
Shall be paid by the Reependent t0 the Executive Director of the
Board within 30 days of its imposition by Final Order Of the
Board.

3. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand from the
Beard of Medicine.

4. It is expressly understood that this Stipulation is
Subject to the approval of the Board and the Department. In this
regard, the foregoing paragraphs {and only the foregoing
paragraphs ef the Stipulated Facts. Stipulated Cenelusiens of Law

and Stipulated Dispesitien} shall have.ne force and effect unless

c3

‘a Final Order is entered interperatinq the terms of this
Stipulatieh, by the Board.

5. Respondent shall appear before the Beard at the
meeting of the Board where this Stipulation is Considered.

Respondent, in conjunction with the consideration bf this

Stipulation by the Board, shall respond t0 questions under oath
from the Beard, Beard Staff or Department Staff.

5. Should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement
made, er iniermatien submitted, in furtheranee of this

Stipulation, by the Respondent or his agents, either directly or

indirectly, may be used as direct evidence against the Respondent
in any preceeding; hewever, such statements may be used by the
Petitioner fer impeachment purposes enly.

T. Respondent and the Department fully understand that

this joint Stipulation and subsequent Final Order incorporating
same will in ne way preclude additiehsl proceedings by the Beard
ather the Department against the Respehdent for acts or
emissions not specifically set forth in the Administrative
Csmplaint attached as Exhibit “E“ herein!

3. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation,
Respondent expressly waives all further procedural steps, and
expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to
etherwise challenge or contest the validity of the joint

Stipulatiou of facts, conclusions of law ahd imposition of

discipline, and the Final Order of the Board incorporating said

Stipulation.

t3

9- Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation, the

parties hereby agree that each party will hear his own attorney 3
fees and costs resulting Exam prﬁsecution andfor defense of this
preeeeding. RespOndent waives the right te seek any attorney's
fees or costs from the Department in connectiOH with this
disciplinary grosseding.

1U. This Stipulatien is executed by the Respondent fer the
QTPurpese of avoiding further administrative action with respect to

this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to

review and examine all investigative file materials concerning

Respondent prior to or in cenjunctien with consideration of the
Stipulation. Furthermore, sheuld this joint Stipulation not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentatien to and
tensideratien of this Stipulation and other documents and matters
by the Board shall net unfairly er illegally prejudice the Board
or any Of its members from further participation, consideratiﬂn

a

or resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED this 1_ day of Mk3 . , 1939.

  

Sworn te and subscribed
be ﬁre me this

 
 
      

EOTARY PUBLIC

Hy Cemmissien Expires:

APPROVED this ﬁiﬁ.day 0f _jﬁ1£*4 _, 1939.

Larry Gonzalez
Secretary

  
      

By: Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Attorney

Medical Section

SADfsd
04f12f39
1154

H

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitionerr

DPR CASE NO. Dlﬂﬁﬂﬂﬁ
v5.

EDWARD F. PHILLIPS, M.D.

Respondent.

f
ADMIHlSiEﬁElEE_ﬂﬂﬂELEIHI

COMES HOW the Petitioner, Department 0f Professional
RegulatiOH, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner", and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Heard of Medicine
against Edward P. Phillips, M.D.. hereinafter referred to as
"Reapendent", and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with
regulating the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30,
Florida Statutes; Chapter 455Ir Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458,

Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Flerida, having been
issued license number ME 0035912. Respondent's last known

address is 6230 S.W. ?2 Street, #4DT, Scuth Hiami, Flerida 33143.

EﬂuHI_l
3. Petitiener reelleges and incorperatee paragraphs one
{1} and two {2] as if fully set forth above.
4. Oh ur abeut January 1, 1934, Respcndent's ILCense tn
practice medicine in the State of Flerida reverted to an inactive

status for failure to renew.

i,

5. From on or ahOut January 11' 1984 to on or about
November 24, 1988, Respondent centinued to practice medicine in
Florida with an inactive license. Said practice was in violation
of Section 458.32?[1}{a], Flarida Statutes.

6. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
453.3311l){x), Florida Statutes, in that he 15 guilty of
violating any provision of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, a rule
cf the board or the department, or a lawful order of the board or
department previously entered in a disciplinary hearing or
failing to comply with a lawfully issued subpoena of the
department.

EﬂﬂHI_ll

1. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
{1}, two (2}, four {4], and five {5} as if fully set forth above.

3. Respondent failed t0 notify the Dapartment of
Professional Regulation of his change of address. Said practice
is a violation of Sectinn 453.319(5}, Flﬂrida Statutes as well as
a violatian of Department of Profesaional Regulation Rule 21—
E.ﬂ12, Florida Administrative Cmde.

9. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
453.331f1}{x), Florida Statutes, in that ha is guilty of
violating any provision of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, a rule
of the haard or the department, or a lawfull orde: 0f the bnard
or the department previously entered in a disciplinary hearing or
failing to comply with a lawfully issued subpoena cf the

department.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner reapectfully requests the Board
of Medicine enter an Urder imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspensien of the Respondent’s license,
restriction of the Respendent*e practice, imposition of an
administrative finer issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Reapondent on probation, andfer any other relief that the Beard

deems appropriate.

r SIGNED this £2§?"' day of , 1999.

Larry Gonzalez

Secretary (few)
7,7

  

QW'

Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attcrney

   

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Don A. Hyman

Senior Attorney F l L E D

Department of Professional De
pa , -
Regulation rtmem ”f meE'SS'DFW Regulation

l3ﬂ North Monroe street AGENUYCLEHH
Tallahasseer Flcrida 32399-9999

'{999} 493-9962 :12

4 99 awe...
?%Aﬂfmsgqu .

12f29;99

 

