FILED

Department of Professions} Reguiat‘ion
AGENCY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGUL

AT N
BOARD OF MEDICINE
. Q_F»#
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL

CLER
REGULATION, K

/ Frat ‘
Petitioner, DATE /é: //C

DPR CASE NUMBER: 0106470
—vs- . DOAH CASE NUMBER: 89—6874
' LICENSE NUMBER: HE 0027913

 

ANACLETO CAPUA, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

This cause came before the Board of Medicine (Board)

I

pursuant to Section 120.57(1)(b)10, hlorida Statutes, on August
4, 1990, in Jacksonville, Florida, for the purpose of considering
the Hearing Officer's Recommended Order, Petitioner's Exceptions
to the Recommended Order, and Respondent's Responge to
Petitioner's Exceptions (copies of which are attached hereto as
Exhibits A, B, and C, respectively) in the above—styled cause.
Petitioner, Department of Professional Regulation, was
represented by Stephanie A. Daniel, Attorney at Law. Respondent
was pzesent and represented by Kevin F. Dugan, Attorney at Law.

Upon review of the Recommended Order. the argument of the
parties, and after a review of the complete record in this case,
the Board makes the following findihgs and conclusions.

FINDINGS OF FACT

1. Findings of fact set forth in the Recommended Order are

approved and adopted and incorporated herein.

2. There is competent substantial evidence to support the

findings of fact.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. The Board hdS jurisdiction of this matter pursuant to
Section l20.57(l), Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.
2. The conclusions of law set forth in the Recommended
Order are approved and adopted and incorporated herein.
3. There is competent substantial evidence to support the

conclusions of law. r

RULINGS ON EXCEPTIONS

Petitioner's Exceptions are rejected on the basis that there
is competent substantial evidence in the record to support the
findings of fact at issue.

PENALTY

Upon a complete review of the record in this case, the Board
determines that the penalty recommended by the Hearing Officer be
APPROVED and ADOPTED. WHEREFORE,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that

l. Respondent's license to practice medicine is
REPRIHANDED.

2. Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State
of Florida is placed on PROBATION for a period of six months,
subject to the following terms and eonditions:

a. Respondent shall attend 30 hours of Category I
Continuing Medical Education courses per year in the area of
emergency medicine and 10 hours per year in the area of risk

management and medical recordkeeping. Respondent shall submit a

Written plan to the Probationer's Committee for approval prior to

completion of said courses. These hours shall be in addition to
those hours required for renewal of licensure..

b. Respondent shall not practice except under the indirect
supervision of a physician fully licensed under Chapter 458 who
has been approved by the Board 0; its Probation Committee. Said

physician shall practice in the same specialty area as Rey ondent

'0

does. ‘ReSpondent shall have the monitoring physician with him at
his first probation appearance before theJProbation Committee.
Prior to approval of the monitoring physiciah by the Committee,
the Respondent shall provide to the monitoring physician a copy
of the Administrative Complaint and Final Order filed in this
case. Failure of the Respondent or the monitoring physician to
appear at the scheduled Probation Committee meeting shall
constitute a violation of this Order. Prior to tze approval of
the monitoring physician by the Committee, Respondent shall
submit to the Committee a current curriculum vitae and a
description of the current practice from the proposed monitoring
physician. Said materials shall be received by the Board office
no later than fourteen days before Respondent‘s first scheduled
Probation appearance. The attached definition of a monitoring
physician is incorporated herein. The responsibilities of the

monitoring physician shall include:

(1) Submit once every three months reports, in
affidavit form, which shall include:

a. Brief statement of why physician is on probation.
b. Description of probationer's practice.
0. Brief statement of probationer's
compliance with terms of probation.
d. Brief description of probationer's
relationship with monitoring physician.
e. Detail any problems which may have arisen with

-3 _

probationer.

Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that the
monitoring physician submits the required reports.

(2) Review 25% of Respondent's patient records
eelected on a random basis at least once
every three months.
Respondent shall be permitted to practice
medicine other than under indirect supervision
until the next meeting of the Probation Committee
which meeting is scheduled to be on September 20,
1990, in Tampa, Florida, at which time Respondent
and his proposed supervisor must appear or Respondent
must cease practicing.
c. As an alternative to practicing only under indirect
*supervision, as set forth above, Respondent may arrange for
review of his patient records and reports of the results of such
review to the Board by the Quality Assurance Committee at a
hospital at which he practices. N
This order takes effect upbn filing with the Clerk of the
Department of Professional Regulation.

UK- 1
DONE AND ORDERED this Q day of WV , 1990.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

WW.

ZACHARIAH P. ZACHARIAH, M.D.
VICE CHAIRMAN

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO JUDICIAL REVIEW

A PARTY WHO IS ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THIS FINAL ORDER IS ENTITLED
TO JUDICIAL REVIEW PURSUANT TO SECTION 120.68, FLORIDA STATUTES.
REVIEW PROCEEDINGS ARE GOVERNED BY THE FLORIDA RULES OF APPELLATE
PROCEDURE. SUCH PROCEEDINGS ARE COMMENCED BY FILING ONE COPY OF
A NOTICE OF APPEAL WITH THE AGENCY CLERK OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION AND A SECOND COPY, ACCOMPANIED BY FILING
FEES PRESCRIBED BY LAW, WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL, FIRST
DISTRICT, OR WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL IN THE APPELLATE
DISTRICT WHERE THE PARTY RESIDES. THE NOTICE OF APPEAL HUS? BE
FILED WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF RENDITION OF THE ORDER TO EE
REVIEWED.

CERTIFICATE OF SEngég 1
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
nforegoing Order has been provided by certified mail to ANACLETO

CAPUA, M.D., 8435 4th Street North, St. Petersburg, Florida
33702 and Kevin F. Dugan, Attorney-at Law, Wither Centre West,
5999 Central Avenue, St. Petersburg, Florida 3371R' by U.S. Mail
to Donald D. Conn, Hearing OffiCer, Division of Administrative
Hearings, The DeSoto Building, 1230 Apalachee Parkway,
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—1550; and by interoffice delivery to
Stephanie A. Daniel, Attorney at Law, Department of Professional

Regulation, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida

32399~0792 at or before 5:00 P.M., this Jig day of

f>$¢%g¢&j , 1990

Orders/CapuaA 8-90

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIGHAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
DPR CASE NO. O1ﬂﬁﬂTﬂ
v

I'd}

ANACLETO GULHﬂN CAPUA,JH.D.

Respondent.
/

§2ﬂ£ﬂ£§£ﬁﬂT£EE¢EQEEEE:EI

0065; NO“ the Petitioner, Department of Profesaionai
RegulaLlon, her:;nmfuer referred EU as "PcLlLiOHer", and flies
tais Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against Anacieto Guaman Capaa, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"ﬁespondenu", and aL;e;cs:

1. eLitioner is the sLaLe agancy Chargeu HiLh
re

guiating Ens practice 0 medicina puruqant to Sgcpion 20.30,

Florida Statutes; Chapter M55, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458,

Florida Statutes.
2. ﬁcapondent 13 and mas seen at all times material
ncraLo a Licen5e0 pHySLCian 1n the State of Florida, havxng seen
T

issued 11Cen5u numvdr Ht 00¢{915. Responaent's last Known

address is 8&55 éin Street North, St. Petersburg, Florida 33102.

3. At ail times mdLeriai hereto, Heﬁpondanu was employed

by tne Norton Seminole Medical Group.
4. Patient #1 was a 31 year old thte male, who was

examined by the emergency room physician on duty at Seminole

Hospita; on or abouL NOVEmber 1, 196

LA.

5. Patient #1 presented with substernal mid—chest pain
with radiation to the back, agitation, and a great deal of
emotional stress. The emergency room physiciah treated patient
#1 in the usual manner for a suspected cardiac pathology, he
placed patient #1 on a cardiac monitor, a heparin lock was
inserted into a vein and the following lab work was ordered:
chest x—ray, electrocardiogram, electrolytes, cardiac enzymes,
CBC (complete blood count), blood sugar, creatinine, and BUN
(blood urea nitrogren).

6. All the lab work, except for the cardiac enzymes, was
completed when the Respondent came on duty as the emergency room
physician.

7. Upon receiving the cardiac enzyme values, which were

normal, Respondent discharged patient #1 on or about November 1,

1983.

8. Patient #1 expired later that night from myocardial
infarction at the emergency room of Metropolitan General
Hospital.

9. Respondent did not adequately assess patient #1's
condition in that he failed give prOper weight to diagnose such
as angina pectoris and myocardial infarction. These diagnoses
must be actively sought out and confirmed; instead, Respondent
discharged this patient.

10. Respondent did not properly read the
electrocardiogram obtained from patient #1, which was abnormal.

11. Respondent's discharge diagnosis of atypical Chest
pain secondary to anxiety is incorrect because patient #1 was

suffering an acute myocardial infarction.

12. Ruspundent tailed to admit patient #1 to the
hospital. Patient #1 should have been seen by his personal
physiciah and/ur shnuld have been maintained ih an intensive care
setting.

13. Respondent failed to order serial electrocardiograms
and serial cardiac enzymes which would have revealed the true
cause of patient #1'5 chest pain.

’EDUHT_1

14. Petitioner realleqes and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through thirteen (i%) as if fully set forth herein.

15. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that
level of care, skill and treatment which a reasonably prudent
similar physician recognizes as acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances in that: Respondent failed to
consider angina peu1ntis and/or myocardial infarction diagnoses;
Respondent did not properly interpret the electrocardiogram of
patient #1; Respondent‘s discharge diagnosis was incorrect;
Respondent failed to admit patient #1 to the hOSpital; Respondent
failed to refer patient #1 to his primary care physician and/or
an internist UL cardin1nqist; Respondent should have maintained
patient #1 in an inLensive care setting; and Respondent failed to
order serial electrocardiograms and serial cardiac enzymes which
would have revealed the true cause of patient #l's chest pain.

16. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.33l(l)(t), Florida Statutes, in that
Respondent is guiiLy of gross or repeated malpractice or the

failure to prarLice medicine with that level of care, skill, and

treatment which iﬁ recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being aucnptable under similar conditions and
circumstances.

CQHNEVIL

1?. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) Lhrough thirtwmn (13) and paragraph fifteen (15) as if fully
set forth hep=hh

18. HHBpondan {ailed to keep wriLLen medical records
justifyjng tho Uonrmm of trentmmnt of patLont #1 including, but
noL limited to, Lhw jnllwwing: RnsgondHnL‘s mediwal records of
patient #1 do no? Ehﬂiify Respondent's failure to consider angina
pectoris andﬁor Myouurdial infarction diagnoses; Respondent's
medical record; of nnriont #1 do not justify Respondent's failure
to properly interprwr patinnt #1'5 electrocardiogram;
Hmspondmnx'x mwﬂiael rwuurﬁg of patient #1 do not justify
Respondent's incorrect discharge diagnosis; ReSpondent‘s medical
records or patien: 51 do not justify Respondent's failure to
admit patient #1 to thp hospital; Respondent‘s medical records of
patient #1 do not justify Respondent's failure to refer patient
#1 to his primary “AFN phyHLrian and/or an internist or
cardiologist; PH p~nﬁ~u"9 medical records of patient #1 do not
justify Responduhl‘r Fai}uro to maintain patient #L in an
intensive oaru smtting; Rmspondent's medical records of patient
#1 do not justify RospondehL's failure to order serial
electrocardiograms and serial cardiac enzymes which would have
revealed the trno uauso of patient #l‘s Chest pain; Respondent

Stated he .xaminod patient #1 prior to discharge but did not

document this examination in the patient #1‘8 medical records;
and Respondent did not generate a medical record which contained
appropriate documentation.

19. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331(l)(m), Florida Statutes, in that
Respondent failed to keep written medical records justifying the
course of treatment of the patient including, but not limited to,
patient histories, examinatien results and test results.

WHEREEQEE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board
of Medicine enter an lree: imposing one or mere 01 the following
penalties: revocation or Suspension of the Respondent‘s license,
restriction of the Reependent‘s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, iSSuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on prehetien, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems alllprﬂgr'i.:a‘a_‘=3.

r' j ,
SIGNED this __{/5‘Lf‘” day Qt/{Qﬂiﬂg—ékX/{J , 1989.

Larry Gonzalez
Secretary

 

 

Q}: étephanie A. Baniel
Chief Medical Attorney
COUNSEL FOR DEPQRTKZTT‘
Larry J. McPherson f g L E: E}
Senior Attorney A Dmmﬁnwnhﬁ'ﬁ-.,j¢. wnmmbn
Department of ?reteesional $7743'T15i
Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street («a pl/q
Tallahassee, Ficrida 32399—0750 C? _‘&y iﬂ”§a
(904) 488-0062 ' \ “p h“"

DAH/abs/gs

 

