STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

Final Order No. AHCA-95-01289 Duke 312-25

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE IHLED
ADMINISTRATION I BOARD OF 1 Agency for Health Care Adminisxralion
MEDICINE, AGENCY CLERK

R.S. Power, Agency lcrk
. . BW§§E§EZE§21__;QQ£RZ&£;
Petltloner,

Deputy Agency Clerk

V. AHCA CASE NO: 0106456
DOAH CASE NOS: 93-2858
LICENSE NO: ME 0004260

MICHAEL M. GILBERT, M.D.,

Respondent.

M/
FINAL ORDER

THIS MATTER was heard by the Board of Medicine (hereinafter
Board) pursuant to Section 120.57(1)(b)10., Florida Statutes, on
August 4, 1995, in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, for consideration
of. the Hearing Officer’s Recommended Order, the Respondent’s
Exceptions and Petitioner’s Response thereto (Attached as App. A,
B and C, respectively) in the case of Agency for Health Care
Administration, Board of Medicine v. Michael M. Gilbert, M.D.
Petitioner was represented by Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief
Medical Attorney. Respondent was present and represented by Joseph
Paglino, Esquire. Upon consideration of the Hearing Officer's

Recommended Order after review of the complete record and having

been otherwise fully advised in its premises, the Board makes the

following findings and conclusions:

RULINGS ON PETITIONER’S COMBINED EXCEPTIONS TO FINDINGS
OF FACT AND CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. Respondent's first Exception to any Finding of Fact or
Conclusion of Law of the Hearing Officer that. the Respondent
treated Patient #1 for pain in the right hip and right leg, is
rejected. For reasons stated in the Petitioner’s Response, there

was competent substantial evidence to support this finding.

2. Respondent’s second Exception to any Finding of Fact or
Conclusion of Law of the Hearing Officer that the Respondent on or
about March 26, 1984, Respondent diagnosed Patient #1 as suffering
from post-Concussion Syndrome, is accepted, based upon the Board’s
review of the medical records. The last sentence Of paragraph 13
of the Findings of Fact of the Recommended Order is rejected.

3. Respondent’s third Exception to any Finding of Fact or
Cenclusion of Law of the Hearing Officer that the Respondent failed
to maintain adequate medical records of Patient #1, is rejected.
For reasons stated in the Petitioner’s Response, there was
competent, substantial evidence to support this Finding of Fact.
It is well settled that the Board cannot reject findings of fact
where there is chmpetent, substantial evidence to support those
finding. See McDonald v. Dept. of Banking and Finance, 346 So. 2d
569 (Fla. lst DCA 1977).

4. Respondent’s fourth Exception to any Finding of Fact or
Conclusion of Law of the Hearing Officer that the medical records
of Patient #1 did not justify the diagnosis of post—concussion

syndrome, is rejected. For reasons stated in the Petitioner’s

ERELIMINARY STATEMENE

In a four count Amended Administrative Complaint dated
August 25, 1992, Petitioner1 charged Respondent with violating
Sections 458.331(1)(m) and (t) in connection with his treatment
of two patients identified as Patient No. 1 and Patient No. 2.
(For purposes of this Recommended Order, Patient No. 1 will be
referred to as "C.P." and Patient No. 2 will be referred to as
"E.R."). Counts I and II charged Respondent with violating
subsections (m) and (t) respectively in connection with his
treatment of Patient C.P. Counts III and IV charged Respondent
with violating the same statutory provisions in connection with
his treatment of Patient E.R. Specifically, the Amended
Administrative Complaint alleged that Respondent failed to keep
-adequate medical records justifying his course of treatment of
the patients (Counts -I and III); that Respondent misdiagnosed
Patient C.P. as suffering from "post—concussion syndrome" and/or
improperly treated the Patient with carbon dioxide treatment
thereby falling below the standard of care expected of a
reasonably prudent physician under similar circumstances (Count
II); and that Respondent’s evaluation of Patient E.R.’s EEG test
was "unacceptable and below the standard of care" (Count IV).

Respondent denied the allegations of the Amended
Administrative Complaint and timely requested a fermal hearing.
The case was referred to the Division of Administrative Hearings
("DOAH") which noticed and conducted the hearing. The case was
heard consecutively with another proceeding involving Respondent,

DOAH Case No. 93-5972.

The case was originally assigned to Hearing Officer William
J. Kendrick. Prior to the hearing, Hearing Officer Kendrick
_ ruled on several preliminary motions. At the outset of the
hearing, the parties were advised that the rulings entered by
Hearing Officer Kendrick would be considered the law of the case
and would not be revisited.

One of the motions filed prior to the hearing was a Motion
to Determine Reasonableness of Expert Fees (the "Fees Motion")
filed by Petitioner. Hearing Officer Kendrick entered an order
deferring ruling on the Fees Motion until the final hearing. The
Fees Motion involved the expert witness fees for Dr. Basil Yates,
an expert listed as a witness by Respondent. Dr. Yates was not
present at the hearing. His deposition testimony was accepted
into evidence. During the hearing, counsel for Respondent stated
that he did not represent Dr. Yates and consequently would not
address the issues raised in the Fees Motion. Subsequent to the
hearing, a telephone conference hearing was conducted with Dr.
Yates during which time Petitioner’s tender of $350.00 to Dr.
Yates for a one hour deposition was ruled to be reasonable.

During the hearing, Petitioner presented the testimony of
three witnesses: Barbara O’Connor, records custodian for Plaza
Medical Center; Jeffrey' Matthews, an investigator employed by
Petitioner; and Respondent. Petitioner had fourteen exhibits
marked during the course of the hearing, ten of which were ac-
cepted into evidence. Respondent's objections to the deposition

testimony of Petitioner’s expert witnesses (Petitioner’s Exhibits

9 and 10) were overruled. Petitioner’s Exhibits 3, 4, 5 and 6
were not offered into evidence.

The authenticity and completeness of the medical records for
the patients was the source of considerable argument and dispute
between the parties. At the hearing, Petitioner was unable to
provide authenticated medical records for E.R. or a valid release
for those records. This shortcoming was discussed during the
hearing. As set forth below, it is concluded that Petitioner has
not met its burden of proof with respect to Counts III and IV of
the Amended Administrative Complaint and these counts should be
dismissed.

Petitioner’s Exhibit 11 was an Authorization for Release of
Medical Information purportedly signed by C.P. Petitioner
objected to the admissibility of this document because C.P. was
net present to-testify and the release was not notarized. This
objection was overruled at the hearing, but Respondent was
granted an opportunity to submit additional argument on this
point in his posthearing submittals. No persuasive objections to
this exhibit have been provided by Respondent.

As set forth in an Order entered on July 11, 1994, evidence
was presented during the course of the hearing regarding the
unavailability of the original medical records of Patient C.P.
Purported copies of those medical records were marked as
Petitioner’s Exhibit 5. However, those records were not
authenticated and were not offered into evidence. Petitioner did

offer into evidence the following: Petitioner’s Exhibit 2, which

was an affidavit dated May 6, 1994 from an attorney for Plaza
Medical Center regarding the unavailability of the original
medical records for Patients C.P. and E.R.; Petitioner’s Exhibit
12, which was an August 28, 1989 letter from an attorney for~
Plaza Medical Center responding to a subpoena issued during an
investigation commenced by Petitioner; and Petitioner’s Exhibit
13, which was a September 25, 1991 letter from the attorney for
Plaza Medical Center attached to which was a September 13, 1991
Verification of Completeness of Records purportedly executed by
the Records Custodian for Plaza Medical Center regarding the
medical records for Patient C.P. Attached to the letter marked
as Petitioner’s Exhibit 12 were purported copies of the medical
records of C.P. During the hearing, Petitioner's Exhibits 2, 12
and 13 were accepted to establish the documents received by the
'Department during the course of its investigation. Ruling on the
admissibility of the Exhibits for other purposes was reserved and
the parties were given an opportunity to address the legal issues
surrounding the admissibility of those records in their proposed
recommended orders.

Prior to filing a proposed recommended order, Respondent
filed Respondent’s Request for Ruling Denying Admission of the
"Medical Records" of C.P. Subsequently, Respondent also filed
Respondent’s Motion for Extension of Time to File Proposed
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law. Petitioner filed
Petitioner's Response to Respondent’s Request for Ruling Denying

Admission of the "Medical Records" of C.P. and a Response to

Respondent Gilbert’s Motion for Extension of Time to File
Proposed Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law. After these
filings were reviewed and considered an Order was entered on July

11, 1994 accepting into evidence the medical records attached to

Petitioner's Exhibit 12 under the authority of garcia v. State,

564 So.2d 124, 126 (Fla. 1990) and 112 Real Egtgtg Equigjgg, 13;!
v. Chandler Insurance Agengy, 617 So.2d 750 (Fla; 4th DCA 1993).

At the hearing, Respondent testified on his own behalf, but
did not present any other witnesses.. Respondent had eight
exhibits marked for identification during the course of the
hearing and offered seven of them into evidence, all of which
were accepted. Respondent’s Exhibit 7 was not offered into
evidence. Petitioner’s objections to the deposition testimony of
Respondent's expert witnesses (Respondent's Exhibits 2-5) were
overruled. Similarly, Petitioner's objections to Respondent’s
Exhibit 1, a composite of several articles authored by Respondent
regarding post-concussion syndrome and carbon dioxide treatments,
were overruled.

The July 11, 1994 Order established a time frame fer filing
propdsed findings of fact and conclusions of law. Both parties
have timely submitted proposed findings of fact and conclusions
of law in accordance with that schedule. A ruling on each of the
parties' proposed findings of fact is included in the Appendix to
this Recommended Order.

Subsequent to the filing of proposed findings of fact and

conclusions of law, Respondent filed Respondent’s Motion for

Attorney’s Fees. That Motion did not cite, to any specific
statutory authority for an award of attorney’s fees. Petitioner
filed a Motion to Dismiss with respect to the Motion for
Attorney’s Fees arguing that any motion for attorney’s fees was
premature until this case was finally resolved. Respondent filed
Respondent’s Reply to Petitioner's Motion to Dismiss Petitioners
[sic] Motion for Attorney [sic] Fees. That Response also fails

to cite to any specific statutory authority for the award being

sought. It is assumed that the motion was predicated upon
Section 57.111, Florida Statutes. Such a motion is clearly
premature until the case is finally resolved. Accordingly,

Respondent’s Motion is denied.
FINDIN F FA T

Based upon the oral and documentary evidence adduced at the
final hearing and 'the entire record _in this proceeding, the
following findings and fact are made:

1. At all times pertinent to this proceeding, Respondent,
Michael Gilbert, was a licensed physician in the State of
Florida, having been issued license number MEOOO4260. Respondent
was licensed as a physiCian in Florida sometime prior to 1973.
Although no conclusive evidence was presented as to the exact
date Respondent was first licensed, it appears that Respondent
has been licensed since approximately 1949.

2. Respondent is Board Certified by the American Board of
Psychiatry and Neurology. Respondent also holds a Ph.D. in

Psychology and is a licensed Psychologist.

3. There is no evidence of any prior disciplinary action
against Respondent except for the charges in DOAH Case No. 93-
5972 which was heard immediately prior to the hearing in this
case. A Recommended Order in that case has been issued this same
date.

4. Based upon complaints received from an insurance
company, the Department initiated an investigation regarding
Respondent’s treatment of Patient C.P. and at least one other
patient in approximately October of 1988. The Department served
a subpoena on Respondent seeking his medical records regarding
the treatment of those patients. Through his attorney at the
time, Respondent advised that he had seen the patients at Plaza
Medical Cehter and not as private patients at his office and,
thus, any records that existed would be located at Plaza Medical
Center. The Department then issued a subpoena to the custodian
of medical records at Plaza Medical Center seeking the records
for Patient C.P. and others. Ultimately, the attorney for Plaza
Medical Center provided the Department with the records which
were attached to the letter marked as Petitioner’s Exhibit 12.

5. At the time of the hearing in this case, the original
medical records of Plaza Medical Center could not be located. As
set forth in the Preliminary Statement above, the copies of the
records which were attached to Petitioner’s Exhibit 12 were
accepted into evidence. Those records were produced by an

attorney for Plaza Medical Center in response to the subpoena

issued by Petitioner in 1989.

6. The evidence in this case clearly established that
Respondent saw and evaluated Patient C.P. at Plaza Medical
Center. Respondent has suggested that the records attached to
Petitioner’s Exhibit 12 were inaccurate and/or incomplete. No
persuasive evidence was presented to establish that any pertinent
parts of C.P.’s medical records were missing or altered.

7. Respondent has acknowledged preparing the handwritten
entries on a form Psychiatric Examination and Evaluation Report
contained in the medical records for C.P. which have been
accepted into evidence. Moreover, the records accepted into
evidence were apparently used as a basis for insurance billing.
Respondent suggests that there may have been additional pages to
his report which have not been included with the records. Even
if this suggestion is true, Respondent was responsible' for
insuring that adequate medical records were kept regarding his
examination and treatment of the Patient. As set forth below,
Respondent has not met this responsibility.

8. Respondent claims that Plaza Medical Center was ”like a
clinic" and arranged patient appointments, provided billing
services and other administrative services to physicians.
Respondent claims he had a verbal contract to provide medical
services to patients at Plaza Medical Center and was paid per
patient seen. According to Respondent, Plaza Medical Center
handled all of the insurance billing and record-keeping.
Respondent claims that Plaza Medical Center was responsible for

maintaining any and all records regarding his evaluation of and

any treatment rendered to Patient C.P. at Plaza Medical Center.
Even if Respondent's version of his arrangement with Plaza
Medical Center is accepted as accurate, Respondent still had an
obligation to see that adequate medical records were kept
regarding his examination and treatment of the Patient.

9. Respondent contends that at some point after Patient
C.P.’s treatment at Plaza Medical Center, Respondent began to
suspect that Plaza Medical Center was engaged in fraudulent
billing practices. Respondent claims that he terminated his
relationship with the Center shortly thereafter. There was no
evidence presented in this case to establish that Respondent
, knowingly participated or acquiesced in fraudulent insurance
billing. However, it was incumbent upon Respondent to see that
accurate and complete records of his treatment of the patients
were prepared and preserved.

10. Some of the medical records for Patient C.P. include a
stamped signature of Respondent with the notation "typed but not
proofed". Respondent testified that he did not prepare these
pages and had not seen then1 prior to the, initiation ef this
proceeding. Respondent argues that he is not responsible for
those portions of the medical records which have not been
positively identified as-having been prepared by him. Even if
those pages in the medical records which Respondent did not admit
to preparing are disregarded, the evidence clearly established
that Respondent has failed to ensure that adequate records have

been maintained regarding his evaluation and treatment of Patient

C.P.

10

11. The clear and convincing evidence presented in this
case established that on or about March 20, 1984, Patient C.P.
presented to Plaza Medical Center complaining of sorehess in his
hip and leg. Apparently, the Patient was referred to Plaza
Medical Center by his attorney. During that visit, Patient C.P.
related a fﬁstory that included an accident on April 24, 1983
during which he was struck by a car while riding a bicycle. An
Accidental Injury Report was filled out which noted that the
Patient was experiencing memory loss, tension, irritability,
mental dullness, and fatigue among other symptoms.

12. On March 22, 1984, Patient C.P. was examined at Plaza
Medical Center by Michael Goodson, M.D., who prepared a
Neurologica1 Report. 'That Report noted that the Patient suffered
arm, hip and pelvic injuries as a result of his accident. There
is no indication of any other injuries or complaints by the
Patient in that Report.

13. On March 26, 1984, C.P. was evaluated by Respondent.
Respondent’s Psychiatric Examination and Evaluation Report noted
that the Patient was complaining of "light-headedness at times,
irritability, dizziness, fatigue, blurring of vision at times,
insomnia, a recent memory loss and difficulty in concentrating."
Respondent diagnosed the Patient as. suffering from "post-
concussion syndrome".

14. Post—concussion syndrome is an amorphous diagnosis that
can refer to'a variety of complaints and symptoms that may occur

after a patient has had a concussion and/or brain injury. There

11

Response, there was competent, substantial evidence to support this
Finding of Fact. It is well settled that the Board cannot reject
findings of fact where there is competent, substantial evidence to
support those finding. See McDonald V. Dept. of Banking and
Finance, 346 So. 2d 569 (Fla. lst DCA 1977).

5. Respondent’s fifth Exception to any Finding of Fact or
Conclusion of Law of the Hearing’ Officer that the Respondent
improperly recommended or treated Patient #1 with carbon dioxide
treatments, is rejected. For reasons stated in the Petitioner's
Response, there was competent, substantial evidence to support this
Finding of Fact. It is well settled that the Board cannot reject

findings of fact where there is competent, substantial evidence to

support those finding. See McDonald v. Degt. of Banking and

' Finance, 346 So: 2d 569 (Fla. lst DCA 1977).

6. Respondent's sixth Exception to any Finding of Fact or
Conclusion of Law of the Hearing' Officer that carbon dioxide
treatments was not an accepted treatment modality for Patient #1,
is rejected. For reasons stated in the Petitioner's Response, to
include expert witness testimony, there was competent, substantial
evidence to support this Finding of Fact. It is well settled that
the Board cannot reject findings of fact where there is competent,
substantial evidence to support those finding. See McDonald v.
Dept. of Banking and Finance, 346 So. 2d 569 (Fla. lst DCA 1977).

7. Respondent's seventh Exception to any Finding of Fact or
Conclusion of Law of the Hearing Officer that Respondent practised

below an acceptable standard of care with regard to Patient #1, is

are no commonly accepted objective neurological Signs of post-

concussion syndrome.

15. As a result of his evaluation, Respondent recommended
that Patient C.P. receive "carbon dioxide treatments". At the
hearing in this case, Respondent explained that the treatments
are more accurately called carbogen and involve inhalation thera-
py with a mixture of roughly 20% carbon dioxide with 80% oxygen.2

16. The records that were presented in this case do not
justify or substantiate the diagnosis of post-concussion syndrome
nor do they justify the use of carbon dioxide treatment.

17. In treating post-concussion syndrome, it is prudent to
identify the specific symptom(s) and their likely cause since the
diagnosis is used for such a wide—range of conditions and
symptoms could be caused by a number of different physiological
sources or could even be psychiatric in nature. In this case,
the Patient’s accident had occurred almost one ‘year prior to
Respondent’s evaluation. With an injury this old, a proper
evaluation should have explored possibly serious medical causes
for the Patient’s complaints such as a subdural hematoma. There
is no persuasive evidence that Respondent 'performed such an
evaluation. However, it does not appear that Respondent’s
evaluation took into account the neurological examination that
had been performed a couple of days before he first saw the
Patient and it does not appear that Respondent had obtained an
appropriate poSt medical history, family history or performed an

adequate examination of the Patient. The billings for Dr.

12

Gilbert’s March 26, 1984, exam was for a comprehensive
examination with history. The records do not justify such a
»billing. Respondent’s denial of any knowledge of the tulling
does not relieve him of responsibility where the bill was sent
out under his name for a patient he saw.

18. The clear and convincing evidence in this case
established that ”carbogen" and/or carbon dioxide treatments are
not taught in medical schools and are not generally accepted
therapeutic modalities to treat "post—concussion syndrome".
While Respondent claims there are other physicians who use carbon
dioxide treatments for post-concussion syndrome, none of the six
physicians whose depositions were accepted into evidence in this
case had any direct experience with the treatments. Conflicting
expert testimony was presented as to whether "carbogen" and/or
carbon dioxide treatments are medically and physiologically
sound.

19. In the late 19505 through the early 1970’s, Respondent
authored several articles and made a number of presentations in
support of the use of carbon dioxide treatments for post-
concussion syndrome. Respondent claims to have made oral
presentations on this treatment approach as recently as 1983.
The theory behind Respondent's support for such treatments is
that carbon dioxide can increase cerebral blood flow which
Respondent postulates can alleviate the histologic changes
occurring in the post-cussional state. Respondent claims to have

studied the use of such treatments in depth and reports favorable

13

results. Respondent’s studies were not "double—blind" and do not
scientifically validate the benefits. Respondent's experts
concurred with the theory, however, none of them had ever
utilized the treatment or studied it. Petitioner's experts
contend that there is no scientific evidence that decreased
profusion is a mechanism for post-concussion syndrome. They
argue that, while the benefits of carbon dioxide treatments may
have been an acceptable hypothesis at some earlier date, such
treatments were not an acceptable modality for a reasonably
prudent physician in the community at the time C.P. was treated
at Plaza Medical Center. Petitioner did not. present any
scientific studies directly reflecting the claimed benefits of
carbon dioxide treatments and/or refuting the result of the
research published by Respondent regarding the benefits of these
treatments. While it cannot be conciuded from the record in this
.case that the use of carbon dioxide treatments is always below
the standard of care expected of a reasonably prudent physician,
such treatments should clearly not be utilized on an
indiscriminate basis for any patient diagnosed as suffering from
post-concussion syndrome. Because it is not a broadly accepted
or recognized treatment and potentially could be harmful, a
practitioner who chooses to use it should carefully select his
patients and clearly document the Patient’s condition and the
justification for the treatment. Respondent failed to do so in
connection \Jith his recommendation for Patient C.P. He also
failed to obtain an informal consent from the Patient prior to

the initiation of the treatments.

14

20. The insurance billing records indicate that shortly
after Respondent’s recommendation, the Patient began receiving
carbon dioxide treatments. Respondent disclaims ‘any direct
responsibility for administering of the treatments and down-plays
his role in developing the Patient's treatment plan.
Respondent’s testimony regarding his involvement with Plaza
Medical Center and his evaluation and treatment of Patient C.P.

was vague and sometimes confusing. Respondent contends that he

was merely a consultant to C.P.’s physicians and was not directly
responsible for Patient C.P.’s treatment. However, it is clear
that Respondent prepared a Psychiatric Examination and Evaluation
and recommended carbon dioxide treatments which’ were
administered.

21. There were several other physicians who treated C.P. at
Plaza Medical Center. The exact role of each of these physicians
is not entirely clear nor is it clear who was primarily
responsible for the Patient’s care. Respondent was the only
physician whose notes include a recommendation for carbon dioxide
treatments.

22. Subsequent to Respondent's recommendation, a report
dated April 4, 1983 by Dr. Harold Freedman noted that the carbon
dioxide treatments were to continue.

23. Respondent prepared a Final Examination and Evaluation
of Patient C.P. on June 4, 1984. In his report, Respondent noted
that the Patient's recent memory impairment was worse. There is
no indication as to what efforts, if any, Respondent undertook to

determine the cause of the Patient’s deteriorating memory.

15

A typed version of the final report appears in the records
bearing a. stamp of Respondent’s signature. Respondent denies
seeing that version of the report and points out certain material
variations between the typed and written versions. It is not
clear when or where the typed version was prepared. The
variations are of no consequence to this proceeding.

N L I N F LAW

24. The Division of Administrative Hearings has
jurisdiction over the parties and the subject matter of this
proceeding pursuant to Section 120.57(1), Florida Statutes.

25. Petitioner has the burden of proof in this license
discipline case and must prove the allegations set forth in the
Administrative Complaint by clear and convincing evidence, Ferris

v. Tur 'n t , 510 So.2d 292 (Fla. 1987); Ev ac

v. Department of Agriculture and ﬁonsumer Services, 550 So.2d

112, 116 (Fla. lst DCA 1989); Pascale v. Degartment of Insurance,

525 So.2d 922 (Fla. lst DCA 1988).
26. The nature of the clear and convincing evidence has
been described in Slomowjtz v. Walker, 429 So.2d 797, 800 (Fla.

4th DCA 1983), as follows:

We therefore hold that clear and convincing
evidence requires that the evidence must be
found to be credible; the facts to which the
witnesses testify must be precise - and
explicit and the witness must be lacking in
confusion as to the facts in issue. The
evidence must be of such weight that it
produces in the mind of the trier of fact a
firm belief or conviction, without hesitancy,
as to the truth of the allegations sought to
be established. ‘

16

See also, Smith v. Degartmen; of ﬂealth ang Behabilitgtjve Se:-

nges, 522 So.2d 956, 958 (Fla. lst DCA 1988), which quotes with
approval the above-quoted language from Slomowitz, and adds, the
following:
"Clear and convincing evidence" is an
intermediate standard of proof, more than the
"preponderance of the evidence" standard used

in most civil cases, and less than the
"beyond a reasonable doubt" standard used in

criminal cases. See State 'v. graham, 240
So.2d 486 (Fla. 2d DCA 1970).

27. Pursuant to Section 458.331, Florida Statutes, the
Board of Medicine is empowered to revoke, suspend or otherwise
discipline the license of a registered physician who is fbund
guilty of committing any of the offenses enumerated in Section
458.331(l), Florida Statutes. In determining whether a licensee
has vidlated Section 458.331, Florida Statutes, as charged in an
administrative complaint, one "must bear in mind that it is, in
effect, a penal statute . . . this being true the statute must be
strictly construed and no conduct is to be regarded as included
within it that is not reasonably proscribed by it. Furthermore,
if there are any ambiguities included such must be construed in
favor of the . . . licensee." este v. De ar me t o ' o s-
sional and Qccupational Regulations, 348 So.2d 923, 925 (Fla. lst
DCA 1977).

28. Disciplinary action with respect_ to a professional
license is limited to offenses or facts alleged in the

administrative complaint. Sternberg v. Department of Professional

u at'o card of ed' a xa 'ne 5, 465 So.2d 1324, 1325

17

(Fla. lst DCA 1985); Kinney V. Depgzgmgnﬁ Qf State, 501 So.2d
129, 133 (Fla. 5th DCA 1987).

29. The Administrative Complaint in this case charges
Respondent with violating Subsections (m) and (t) of Section
458.331(l), Florida Statutes. Those subsections authorize the
Board to take disciplinary action against a physician’s license

as follows:

(1) The following acts shall constitute
grounds for which the disciplinary actions
specified in subsection (2) may be taken:

* * *

(m) failing to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of the
Patient, including, but not limited to,
Patient history; examination results; test
results; records of drugs prescribed,
dispensed or administered; and reports of
consultations and hospitalizations

‘1’. * *

(t) gross or repeated malpractice or the
failure to practice medicine with that level
of care, skill, and treatment which is
recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances. The Board
shall give great weight to the provision of
5.766.102 when enforcing this Paragraph. As
used in this Paragraph, "gross malpractice"
or the "failure to practice medicine with
that level of care, skill, and treatment
which is recognized by a reasonably prudent
similar physician as being acceptable under
similar conditions and circumstances" shall
not be construed so as to require more than
one instance, event, or act. Nothing in this
Paragraph shall be construed to require that
a physician be incompetent to practice
medicine in order to be disciplined pursuant
to this Paragraph.

30. Respondent has failed to keep adequate written medical

records regarding his examination and treatment of Patient C.P.

18

As noted in W
W, 574 So.2d 153 (Fla. lst DCA 1990), a violation
of Section 458.331(l)(m), may occur when medical records are so
inadequate that "neutral third parties can (not) observe what
transpired during the course of treatment of a patient. Even if
Respondent was not the physician primarily responsible for this
Patient, his records fail to meet this standard.

31. In addition, it is concluded that Respondent
recommended a treatment modality that was not supported by the
Patient’s medical records and without adequately analyzing the
Patient’s condition.

32. In summary, the clear and convincing evidence in this
case established that Respondent was guilty of violating Sections
458.331(1)(m) and (t), Florida Statutes, as alleged in Count I
'and II of the Administrative Compiaint. Since, Petitioner did
not carry its burden of proof with respect to Counts III and IV,
those Counts should be dismissed.

33. The disciplinary guidelines of the Board of Medicine
are feund at Rule 61F6-20.001 (formerly‘ 21M-20.001),V Florida
Administrative Code. Those Rules provide a range of penalties
for a violation of Section 458.331(1)(m) from a reprimand to two
(2) years suspension and an administrative fine from $250 to
$5,000. For a violation of subsection (t), the Rules provide for
a penalty from two (2) years probation to revocation of a license
and an administrative fine from two hundred fifty dollars ($250)

to five thousand dollars ($5,000).

19

34.

35.

patient suffered any harm.

years with no evidence of prior disciplinary action other than

DOAH Case

case. While the evidence raises some questions regarding Plaza

Rule 61F6-20.001(3) provides as follows:

(3) Aggravating and Mitigating Circumstances.
Based upon consideration of aggravating and'
mitigating factors present in an individual
case, the Board may deviate from the
penalties recommended above. The Board shall
consider as aggravating or mitigating factors
the following:

(a) Exposure of patient or public to injury
or potential injury, physical or otherwise;
none, slight, severe, or death; ‘

(b) Legal status at the time of the offense;
no restraints or legal constraints;

(c) The number of counts or separate
offenses established;

(d) The number of times the Same offense or
offenses have previously been committed by
the licensee or applicant;

(e) The disciplinary history of the
applicant or licensee in any jurisdiction and
the length or practice;

(g)~ Any other relevant mitigating factors.

In this case, no evidence has been presented that any

No. 93—5972 which was heard immediately prior to this

Medical Center and Respondent's involvement with it,

misconduct by Respondent has been proven other than as set forth

above.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and

RECQMﬂENDATIQN '

of Law, it is

RECOMMENDED that a Final Order be entered finding Respondent

guilty of

Statutes,

violating Sections 458.33l(l)(m) and (t),

as alleged in Counts I and II of the Administrative

20

Respondent has practiced for many

no direct

Conclusions

Florida

Complaint, but dismissing Counts III and IV. As a penalty for
the violations, Respondent’s license to practice medicine should
be placed on probation for two (2) years. In addition, an

administrative fine in the amount of one thousand dollars

($1,000) should be imposed.

DONE AND RECOMMENDED this 24th day of May, 1995, in

Tallahassee, Leon County, Florida.

 

ision of Administrative Hearings
The DeSoto Building
1230 Apalachee Parkway

Tallahassee, Florida 32399‘1550
(904)488-9675

Filed with the Clerk of the Division
of Administrative Hearings this 24th
day of May, 1995.

ENDNQTES

lThe Amended Administrative Complaint was filed by the
Department of Professional Regulation. Effective July 1, 1994,
the Board of Medicine was transferred to the Agency for Health

Care Administration pursuant to Section 20.42, Florida Statutes
(1993).

Respondent’s testimony at hearing regarding the appropriate
mixture of carbon dioxide and oxygen differs from the 50%-50%

mixture that Respondent described in several of the articles that
he authored and offered into evidence ih support of this
recommended treatment for Patient C.P. See, Gilbert, M.M., Post—
Concussion Syndrome: Its Etiology and Treatment.by Inhalation of
Carbon Dioxide and Oxygen, Southern Medical Journal, Vol. 59, No.
10 p. 1155, 1158 (October 1966); Gilbert M. M., The Treatment of
Post-Concussion Syndrome by Use of Carbon Dioxide-Oxygen
Inhalations; Journal of the American Association of Inhalation

Therapy, Vol 12, No. 6 p. 96, 98 (December 1967). No explanation
for this discrepancy has been provided.

21

rejected. For reasons stated in the Petitioner’s Response, to
include expert witness testimony, there was competent, substantial
evidence to support this Finding of Fact. It is well settled that
the Board cannot reject findings of fact where there is competent,

substantial evidence to support those finding. See McDonald V.

Dept. of Banking and Finance, 346 So. 2d 569 (Fla. lst DCA 1977).
8. Respondent’s eighth Exception to any Finding of Fact or
Conclusion of Law of the Hearing Officer that Respondent

misdiagnosed Patient #1 with post traumatic syndrome, is rejected.

For reasons stated in the Petitioner's Response, to include expert
witness testimony, there was competent, substantial evidence to
support this Finding of Fact. It is well settled that the Board
cannot reject findings of fact where there is competent,
substantial evidence to support those finding. See McDonald v.
Dept. of Banking and Finance, 346 So. 2d 569 (Fla. lst DCA 1977).

9. Respondent’s ninth Exception to any Finding of Fact or
Conclusion of Law of the Hearing Officer that Respondent practiced
below-an acceptable standard of care or failed to maintain adequate
medical records with regards to Patient #1, is rejected. For
reasons stated in the Petitioner’s Response, to include expert
witness testipony, there was competent, substantial evidence to
support these Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law. It is well
settled that the Board cannot reject findings of fact where there

is competent, substantial evidence to support those finding. See

McDonald v. Dept. of Banking and Finance, 346 So. 2d 569 (Fla. lst
DCA 1977).

A2EEHDlK_IQ_BEQQMMEEDED_QBD£B1_£AEEJEL_2}:ZEE§
Rulings on the groposed findings of ﬁact submitted by the
Wen:

1. Adopted in substance in findings of fact 1.
2. Adopted in substance in findings of fact 11.
3. Adopted in substance in findings of fact 12.
4. Adopted in substance in findings of fact 13.

S. Adopted in substance in findings of fact 13.

6. Subordinate to findings of fact 14.

7. Subordinate to findings of fact 15 and 21.

8. Subordinate to findings of fact 18 through 20.

9. Subordinate to findings of fact 23.

10. Adopted in substance in findings of fact 16 and 17.
11. Adopted in substance in findings of fact 16 and 17.
12. Adopted in substance in findings of fact 16 and 17.
13. Adopted in substance ih findings of fact 18.

'14. Rejected as vague and overly broad.

15. Rejected as vague and unnecessary.

16. Adopted in substance in findings of fact l8.

l7. Subdrdinate to findings of fact 18.

18. Subordinate to findings of fact 17 through 21.

s ub
Resggndentz
1. The first two sentences are adopted in substance in
findings of fact 1 and 3. The remainder of this proposal is‘

subordinate to findings of fact 6 through 8 and 20.

22

2. Subordinate to findings of fact 15 and 20-22.

3. Rejected as unnecessary and not supported by competent,
substantial evidence. While the medical records for Patient C.P.
include references, and in some references, reports from these

other physicians, no conclusions are reached herein as to the

exact role of each of those physicians.
4. Rejected as constituting argument and speculation.

5. Rejected as overly broad and as constituting argument.

This subject matter is addressed in findings of fact 17-19.

6. Subordinate to findings of fact 7, 9 and 23.

7. Subordinate to findings of fact 20.

8. Subordinate to'findings of fact 8 through 10.

9. Addressed in the July 11, 1994 Order, the Preliminary
Statement and in findings of fact 5.

10. Addressed in the Preliminary Statement and subordinate
to findings of fact 5 through 9 and 23-24.

11. Addressed in the July 11, 1994 Order, the Preliminary.
Statement and subordinate to findings of fact 5 through 9.

12. Addressed in the Preliminary Statement.

13. Rejected as unnecessary.

14. Subordinate to findings of fact 18 and 19.

15. Subordinate to findings of fact 6, 13, 15-17, 20, 21

and 22.

16. Subordinate to findings of fact 6, 13, 15-17, 20, 21

and 22.

17. Subordinate to findings of fact 19.

23

18. Adopted in substance in findings of fact 18.
19. Subordinate to findings of fact 18 and 19.
20. Subordinate to findings of fact 17 and 18.
21. Addressed in the Preliminary Statement.

22. Subordinate to findings of fact 18 and 19.
23. Subordinate to findings of fact 18 and 19.
24. Subordinate to findings of fact 19.

25. Rejected as unnecessary.

26. Adopted in pertinent part in findings of fact 14 and

17.

Respondent’s proposed findings of fact and conclusions of
law includes a section entitled The Expert Testimony Presented.
This section consists mostly of argument and summaries of

testimony. No specific rulings are made in connection therewith.

COPIES FURNISHED:

Douglas M. Cook, Director

Agency for Health Care
Administration

2727 Mahan Drive

Tallahassee, FL 32308

Tom Wallace, Assistant Director

Agency for Health Care '
Administration

The Atrium, Suite 301

325 John Knox Road

Tallahassee, FL 32303

Arthur B. Skafidas, Esq.
Monica L. Felder
Department of Business

and Professional Regulation
Suite 60 '
1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792

24

Joseph Paglino, Esquire
Suite 301

11601 Biscayne Boulevard
North Miami, Florida 33181

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO SUBMIT EXCEPTIONS

All parties have the right to submit written exceptions to this
Recommended Order. All agencies allow each party at least IQ
gays in which to submit written exceptions. Some agencies allow
a larger period within which to submit written exceptions. ng

shou1d contact the agency that will issue the fina; ogde; in this
case concegning agency gules on the deadline ﬁg: filing
exceptions to this Recommended dieg. Any exceptions to this
Recommended Order should be filed with the agency that will issue

the final order in this case.

25

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION, DOAH CASE NO. 93—2585
DBPR CASE NO. 93-0106456

Petitioner,
vs.
MICHAEL M. GILBERT, M.D., @©PV
1
Respondent. ‘ ‘

 

RESPONDENT’S EXCEPTIONS TO RECOMMENDED ORDER,
FINDINGS OF FACT AND CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

Respondent, Michael M. Gilbert, M.D., files these,
his exceptions to the Recommended Order dated 24 May 1995

and served on 26 May 1995.

Appearances of Counsel for the Parties:

 

For Petitioner: Arthur Skafidas, Esq./Monica Feldman, Esq.
Dept. of Business & Professional Regulatiqg
1940 North Monroe Street 01
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792 __

_<

For Respondent: Joseph S. Paglino, Esq. co
11601 Biscayne Blvd., Suite 301 <3

North Miami, Florida 33181 3,

THE CHARGES AGAINST RESPONDENT é:

 

Respondent was charged with violations in Four (4)

Counts of an Amended Administrative Complaint. Counts 1 and

2 refer to Patient #1, C.P. Counts 3 and 4 refer to Patient
#2, E.R. The Charges and exceptions to the Recommended

Order are treated separately as to each "Patient".

I

PETITIONER’S CHARGES AGAINST
RESPONDENT AS TO PATIENT #1, C.P.

Count I charged Respondent with failing to keep
written medical records as to Patient # 1, C.P., in
violation of Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, and

failing to practice medicine with the acceptable standard

of care in violation of s. 458.33l(1)(t).

Count II charged Respondent with failure to keep_
proper medical records in violation of s. 458.331(1)(m),
and with violating Section 458 331(l)(t), Florida Statutes,
by committing gross malpractice or the failure to practice,

medicine with the acceptable standard of care.

5. 4S8.331(m), F.S. reads as follows:

Failing to keep written medical records justifying
the course of treatment of the Patient, including,
but not limited to, Patient histories; examination
results; test results; records of drugs prescribed,
dispensed, or administered; and reports of
consultations and hospitalizations.

s. 458.331(1)(t) reads as follows:

Gross or repeated malpractice or the failure to
practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under

-2-

similar conditions and circumstances. The board
shall give great weight to the provisions of s.
766.102 when enforcing this Paragraph. As used in
this Paragraph, "repeated malpractice" includes,
but is not limited to three or more claims for
medical malpractice within the previous 5—year
period resulting in indemnities being paid in
excess of $10,000.00 each to the claimant in a
judgment or settlement and which incidents involved
negligent conduct by the physician. As used in
this Paragraph, "gross malpractice" or "the failure
to practice medicine with that level of care,
skill, and treatment which is recognized by a
reasonably prudent similar physician as being
acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances," shall not be construed so as to
require more than one instance, event, or act.
Nothing in this Paragraph shall be construed to
require that a physician be incompetent to practice

medicine in order to be disciplined pursuant to
this Paragraph.

THE PERTINENT ALLEGATIONS AS TO PATIENT #1, C.P.

_______________________________________________

The pertinent allegations supporting Counts 1 and
2, as to Patient #1, C.P., are set forth in Paragraphs 3

through 6 of the Amended Complaint, as follows:

3. On or about March 26, 1984, until on or
about June 4, 1984, Respondent treated Patient #1
for, but not limited to, pain in the right hip and
right leg. On or about March 26, 1984, Respondent
diagnosed Patient #1 as suffering from
Post-Concussion Syndrome.

4. Respondent failed to keep written records
of Patient #1’s medical history, mental status, and
physical examinations. Respondent's medical
records to not justify the diagnosis of
Post-Concussion Syndrome.

5. Respondent recommended and treated Patient
#1’s condition with Carbon Dioxide treatments.

-3-

Carbon Dioxide treatments are not accepted as a
therapeutic modality for Patient #1’s condition,
Post—Concussion Syndrome.

6. Respondent failed to practice medicine with
that level of care, skill and treatment which a
reasonably prudent similar physician recognizes as
acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances, in that Respondent treated Patient
#1 with Carbon Dioxide treatments; and/or
Respondent misdiagnosed the Patient as suffering
from Post— Concussion Syndrome.

RESPONDENT’S EXCEPTIONS TO THE RECOMMENDED ORDER

AS TO PATIENT # 1 - C.P.

1. Respondent takes exception to any finding or
conclusion of law that on or about March 26, 1984, until on
or about June 4, 1984, Respondent treated Patient #1 for,

but not limited to, pain in the right hip and right leg.

2. Respondent takes exception to any finding or
conclusion of law that on or about March 26, 1984,
Respondent diagnosed Patient #1 as suffering from

Post-Concussion Syndrome.

3. Respondent takes exception to any finding or
conclusion of law that he failed to keep required yritten

records of Patient #l’s medical history, mental status, and

physical examinations.

4. Respondent takes exception to any finding or

conclusion of law that Respondent’s or other applicable

-4-

medical records did not justify the diagnosis of

Post—Concussion Syndrome.

5, Respondent takes exception to any finding or
conclusion of law that he improperly recommended and/or
treated Patient #l's condition with Carbon Dioxide

treatments .

6. Respondent takes exception to any finding or
conclusion of law that Carbon Dioxide treatments are not
accepted as a therapeutic modality for Patient #l's

condition, Post-Concussion Syndrome.

7. Respondent takes exception to any finding or
conclusion of law that he failed to practice medicine with
that level of care, skill and treatment which a reasonably
prudent similar physician recognizes as acceptable under
similar conditions and circumstances, in that Respondent

treated Patient #1 with Carbon Dioxide treatments; and/or

8. Respondent takes exception to any finding or
conclusion of law that he misdiagnosed Patient # 1 as

suffering from Post-Concussion Syndrome.

9. Respondent takes exception to any finding or

conclusion of law that he:
(a) failed to practice medicine with the

-5-

acceptable standard of care, as to Patient # 1, in violation

of s. 458.331(1)(t), or,

(b) failed to keep proper medical records in

violation of s. 458.331(1)(m), or in violation of Section

458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes.

10. Respondent takes exception to any finding or
conclusion of law that he should be disciplined for any of

the Hatters set forth in the Administrative Complaint, as to

Patient # 1.

11. Respondent takes exception to any finding or

conclusion of law that he should be subjected to any of the

punishments recommended in the Recommended Order.

12. Respondent takes exception to any finding

or conclusion of law that any of his affirmative defenses to

the Administrative Complaint are not legally sufficient or

sufficient to cause dismissal of the Administrative
Complaint.

13. Respondent takes exception to any finding

or conclusion of law that the Administrative Complaint

should not be dismissed on the grounds asserted by

Respondent in his Motions and/or Memoranda of law.

14. Respondent takes exception to any finding

or conclusion of law that he should not be awarded a

-6-

10. Respondent’s tenth Exception to any Finding of Fact or
Conclusion of Law of the Hearing Officer that Respondent be
disciplined for any matters set forth in the Amended Administrative
Complaint, is rejected. For reasons stated in the Petitioner’s
Response, Florida Statutes provide for discipline based upon those
violations alleged in the Amended Administrated Complaint.

11. Respondent’s eleventh Exception to any Finding of Fact or
Conclusion of Law of the Hearing Officer that would subject the
Respondent to discipline, is rejected; For reasons stated in the
Petitioner’s Response, this summary, conclusory statement of the
Respondent does not set forth a specific basis for the exception
for the Board to decide.

12. Respondent’s twelfth Exception to any Finding of Fact or
Conclusion of Law of the Hearing Officer that his affirmative
defenses are not legally sufficient, is rejected. For reasons
stated. in the Petitioner’s Response, this summary, conclusory
statement of the Respondent does not set forth a specific basis for
the exception for the Board to decide.

l3. Respondent’s thirteenth Exception to any Finding of Fact
or Conclusion of Law of the Hearing Officer that the Amended
Administrative Complaint should not be dismissed based upon the
Respondent’s previous submitted motions, is rejected. For reasons
stated in the Petitioner’s Response, this is not an.exception to a
specific Finding of Fact or Conclusion of Law for the Board to

decide.

l4. Respondent’s fourteenth Exception to any Finding of Fact

reasonable attorneys fee for the defense of the

Administrative Complaint filed against him.

15. Respondent takes exception to the Hearing Officer’s
rejection of each of Respondent's Proposed Findings Of Facts

which the Hearing Officer did not adopt in his Recommended

Order.

16. Respondent takes exception to the Hearing Officer’s

rejection of each of the Respondent’s Proposed Conclusions
Of Law, which the Hearing Officer did not adopt in his

Recommended Order as to Patient #1, C.P.

17. Respondent takes exception to findings of

conclusions of law in the Hearing Officers Recommended
Order, insofar as the Recommended Order finds that
Petitioner proved the essential elements of the charge as to

Patient # 1, in the Administrative Complaint which it

brought against Respondent.

II

PETITIONER’S CHARGES AGAINST
RESPONDENT AS TO PATIENT # 2, E.R.

_____________________—————-—————-—

Count 3 of the Administrative Complaint charged
that Respondent failed to keep written medical records

justifying the course of treatment of Patient #2
Count 4 of the Administrative Complaint charged

-7-

that Respondent failed to practice medicine with that level
of care, skill and treatment which a reasonably prudent
similar physician recognizes as acceptable under similar

conditions and circumstances, infra.

III

RBSPONDENT'S EXCEPTIONS TO THE RECOMMENDED ORDER
AS TO PATIENT #2, E. R.

 

The charges against Respondent as to Patient E.R.,
were dismissed by the Hearing Officer, and are not,
therefore, in issue in this Objection, except as to
Respondent’s objection to the Hearing Officer’s denial of an
attorneys fee award to Respondent for defending against

Counts III and IV.

IV
RESPONDENT’S ADOPTION AND INCORPORATION

BY REFERENCE HEREIN OF HIS PROPOSED
FINDINGS OF FACT AND CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

__________.__.__._____.______________

Respondent, Michael M. Gilbert, hereby adopts and
incorporates by reference herein, as though fully set forth
herein, his Proposed Findings Of Fact And Conclusions Of
Law, filed in this cause heretofore, in support of his

Exceptions To The Recommended Order of the Hearing Officer,

as to Patient C.P., Counts I and II.

V

RESPONDENT’S REQUEST FOR HEARING ON
HIS EXCEPTIONS TO THE RECOMMENDED ORDER

Respondent respectfully requests a Hearing before
the Agency Of Health Care Administration or other applicable
Board, on his Exceptions to the Recommended Order of the

Hearing Officer.
VI

RESPONDENT’S POSITION AS TO RETROACTIVE DISCIPLINE
TO THE DATE OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

Respondent, takes issue with prospective discipline
in this case. It would appear appropriate, under these
circumstances, that assuming any punishement is appropriate,
'that it be retfoactive to the date of the filing of the
Administrative Complaint in this cause.

Law Office Of Jos. S. Paglino
11601 Biscayne Blvd. Suite 301
North Miami, Florida 33181

Tel. (305) 758—8017

BYl3E:__________________;____
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the original of the
foregoing was furnished by mail this ZUZ day of May, 1995,
to the Hon. David Cook, Director, Agency For Health Care
Administration, 2727 Mahan Drive, Tallahassee, Florida
32308, and, to the Clerk of the Board, Agency For Health
Care Administration, 2727 Mahan Drive, Tallahassee, Florida
32308, and, to Monica L. Felder, Esq. & Arthur Skafidas,
Esq., Co-Counsel for Petitioner, Department of Business &
Professional Regulation, 1940 North Monroe Street,
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792.

[5/

J03. S. Paglino, Esq.

-9-

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL f
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
VS. Case No. 0106456

MICHAEL GILBERT, M.D.
Respondent. _
/ \
AMENDED ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner", and files this
Amended Administrative Complaint. before the Board of Medicine
against MICHAEL GILBERT, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent", and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agenoy charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes, Chapter 455, Florida Statutes and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued

license number ME 0004260. Respondent’s last known address is 1200

Biscayne Boulevard, Miami, Florida 33152.

Facts Relating to Patient £1

3. On or about March 26, 1984, until on or about June 4,
1984, Respondent treated Patient #1 for, but not limited to, pain
in the right hip and right leg; On or about March 26, 1984,

Respo dent diagnosed Patient #1 as suffering from Post—Concussion

Syndrome.

4. Respondent failed to keep written records of Patient #l's
medical history, mental status, and physical examinations.
Respondent’s medical records do not justify the diagnosis of Post-
Concussion Syndrome.

5. Respondent recommended and treated Patient fl’s condition
with carbon dioxide treatments. Carbon dioxide treatments are not
accepted as a therapeutic modality for Patient #l's condition,

Post-Concussion Syndrome.

6. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that level of
care, skill and treatment which a reasonably prudent similar
physician recognizes as acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances, in that Respondent treated Patient #1 with carbon
dioxide treatments; and/or Respondent misdiagnosed the patient as
suffering from Post-Concussion Syndrome.

COUNT ONE

7. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through six (6) as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

8. Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the sourse of treatment of Patient #1.

9. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida statutes, in that Respondent failed
to keep written medical records justifying the course of treatment
of the patient, including, but not limited to, patient histories,
examination results, and test results.

COUNT TWO

10. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)‘

through six (6) and eight (8) as if fully set forth herein this
Count Two.

11. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, in that Respondent is
guilty of gross malpractice or the failure to practice medicine,
with the level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by
a reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under
similar conditions and circumstances.

Facts Relating to Patient £2

12. From on or about September 28, 1987, until on or about
October 3, 1987, Respondent treated Patient #2 for complaints of
headaches, dizzy spells, postural syncopy, and pain in the back,
neck, and. right ankle, among other conditions not named. here.
Respondent diagnosed the patient as suffering from Post—Concussion
SyndrOme.

13. Respondent’s medical records failed to address Patient
#2'5 past medical and social history.

14. On or about September 28, 1987, Respondent performed a
neurological evaluation of Patient #2. The only negative clinical
finding was a 4 + postural syncopy. Said neurological examination
was incomplete and the clinical findings are not explained by the
Respondent’s diagnosis of Post-Concussion Syndrome for Patient #2.

15. On or about October 3, 1987, Respondent performed an EEG
Test oh Patient #2. Respondent's records did not adequately
document the need for the EEG testing.

16. Respondent’s evaluation of said EEG test was unacceptable

and below the standard of care.

QOUNE THREE

17. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1),
two (2), and twelve (12) through fifteen (15) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Three.

18. Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of Patient #2 including, but not
limited to the following: Respondent’s records of Patient #2
failed to provide adequate medical and social history; Respondent’s
records of Patient #2 failed to justify any diagnosis of Patient
#2; and Respondent’s records of Patient #2 failed to justify the
need for the EEG test on Patient #2.

19. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, in that Respondent failed
to keep written medical records justifying the course of treatment
.of the patient, including, but nbt.limited to, patient histories,
examination results, and test results.

COUNT FOUR

20. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs thirteen
(13) through sixteen (16) as if fully set forth herein this Count
Four.

21. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that level of
care, skill and treatment which a reasonably prudent similar
physician recognizes as acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances.

22. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, in that Respondent is

guilty of gross malpractice or the failure to practice medicine,

with the level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by
a reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under
similar conditions and circumstances.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s license,
restriction of the Respondent’s practice, .imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this 07} day of ,

    

 

1992.
George Stuart,
Secretary
(
cPherson, Jr.
Ch' f Medical Attorney
COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT: F I L E . D
Larry G. McPherson, Jr. DepanmentofProfessionatRezulation
Chief Medical Attorney AGENCY(1£RK
Fla. Bar No. 0788643 (,
Department of Professional (Lj'
Regulation .beg
1940 North Monroe Street OL’”””’
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792 CLERK
904 488-0062
< > M 8—25—92
LGM/RC/ecs

PCP: 8/14/92.

Basisht, Murray, Rodriguez

STATE OF FLORIDA Fl L E D

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRAWTH (?giNACDYMﬁggmAnON

BOARD OF MEDICINE EPUTY CLERK
CLERKgV/rw" /ﬂ?ﬁ"k

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ' ~ _
ADMINISTRATION, DATE Q 0? 95

Petitioner, AHCA CASE NO. 0106456
DOAH CASE NO. 93-2858

 

V.

MICHAEL M. GILBERT, M.D.,

Respondent,

/

PETITIONER’S RESPONSE TO RESPONDENT’S
EXCEPTIONS TO RECOMMENDED ORDER
M

 

COMES NOW, the Agency for Health Care Administration, formerly
the Department of Business and Professional Regulation, the
Petitioner, and submits this Response in opposition to Respondent’s
Exceptions to Recommended Order. The Petitioner respectfully
requests that the Board of Medicine rejeet Respondent’s Exceptions
and as groﬁnds would state:

1. A formal hearing regarding this matter was held on May 25-
26, 1994. On July 21, 1994, Petitioner filed its Proposed
Recommended Order.. Respondent timely filed his Proposed Findings
of Fact and Conclusions of Law. On May 24, 1995, the Hearing
Officer issued a Recommended Order finding Respondent guilty of the
violations in Counts I and II of the Amended Administrative
Complaint, a failure to practice with an acceptable level of care
and a failure to maintain written medical records justifying the

course of treatment of the patientk and recommended that Respondent

be fined $1,000 and that Respondent's license to practice medicine
be placed on probation for a period of two (2) years. The Hearing
Officer recommended dismissal of Counts III and IV of the Amended
Administrative Complaint. On May 30, 1995, Respondent timely filed
these Exceptions to Recommended Order, Findings of Fact and
Conclusiohs of Law.

2. This Honorable Board should not reject the findings of

fact entered by the Hearing Officer unless it finds that there is
no competent, substantial evidence to support those findings of

fact. See McDonald v. Degt. of Banking and Finance, 346 So.2d 569
(Fla. lst DCA 1977).

3. Respondent takes exception to any findings of fact or
conclusions of law that are not favorable to Respondent. The Board
should reject these exceptions because they are conclusory,
subordinate, cumulative, Tmmaterial, or unnecessary.

‘ 4. Further, Respondent’s general exceptions are not specific
enough for the Board to consider. Rule 59R-18.004, Florida
Administrative Code, allows the Board to summarily reject
exceptions which do not set forth with reasonable specificity the
specific findings of fact or conclusions of law at issue and the
basis for the exception.

5. Petitioner’s proposed findings of fact, incorporated in
the Hearing Officer’s Recommended Order, are supported by ‘the
following competent, substantial evidence:

a. Respondent is, and has been at all times material hereto,

a licensed physician, having been issued license number ME 0004260

or Conclusion of Law of the Hearing Officer that the Respondent
should not be awarded attorneys fees, is rejected. For reasons
stated in the Petitioner’s Response, this is without merit as
attorneys fees may be awarded to the prevailing party in a case and
the Respondent was not a prevailing party in this case nor is the
case ripe for such decision nor is the request in the correct
forum.

15. Respondent’s fifteenth Exception to the Hearing Officer’s
rejection of any of Respondent’s Proposed Finding of Fact, is
rejected. For reasons stated in the Petitioner’s Response, this is
not an exception to a specific Finding of Fact or Conclusion of Law
for the Board to decide. Further, there was competent and
substantial evidence to support the Findings of Fact of the Hearing
Officer.

16. Respondent’s sixteenth Exception to the Hearing Officer’s
rejection of any of Respondent’s Proposed Conclusion of Law, is
rejected. For reasons stated in the Petitioner’s Response, this is
not an exception to a specific Conclusion of Law for the Board to
decide. Additionally, the Conclusions ef Law of the Hearing Officer
are based upon Findings of Fact supported by competent and
substantial evidence.

17. Respondent’s seventeenth Exception' to the Hearing
Officer’s finding that the Petitioner proved the essential elements
of the Amended Administrative Complaint, is rejected. For reasons
stated in the Petitioner’s Response, the evidence presented at

I hearing was clear and convincing proof that the Respondent was in

by the State of Florida. (Pet. Exh. 1, p. 1; Pet. Exh. 2, p. 2;

Pet. Exh. 8, p. 1)

b. On March 20, 1984, Patient C.P. presented to Plaza Medical

Center complaining of soreness in his hip and leg. (Pet. Exh. 12,
P- 3)

c. On March 22, 1984, Patient C.P. was examined by Michael
Goodson, M.D.. Patient C.P. related a history that included an
accident that occurred on April 24, 1983, during which a bicycle he
was riding was struck by a vehicle. (Pet. Exh. 12, p. 4)

d. On March 26, 1984, Patient C.P. was evaluated by

Respondent. (Pet. Exh. 12, pp. 9-11)

9. On March 26, 1984, Respondent diagnosed Patient C.P. as
suffering from Post-Concussion Syndrome. (Pet. Exh. 9, pp. 12, 17-
18; Pet. Exh. 10, p. 64; Pet. Exh. 1o, depo exh. March 29, 1994,

'Friend, M.D..letter to Skafidas, pp. 2-3)
f. Post—Concussion Syndrome is a group of symptoms that occur

after a patient has had a concussion, which begins with a loss of

consciousness, usually for a brief period of time. (Pet. Exh. 10,
pp. 73-74)

g. Respondent recommended and treated Patient C.P.'s
condition, Post-Concussion Syndrome, with Carbon Dioxide

treatments. (Pet. Exh. 8, pp. 1, 4; Pet. Exh. 9, pp. 17-18; Pet.

Exh. 10, p. 64; Pet. Exh. 10, depo exh. March 29, 1994, Friend,
M.D. letter to Skafidas, pp. 2-3; Pet. Exh. 12, 9-11; Transcript,

pp. 211, 216)

h. Carbon dioxide treatments are not accepted as a
therapeutic modality to treat Post—Concussion Syndrome. (Pet. Exh.
9, pp. 19-23, 113-115; Pet. Exh. 10, pp. 35, 38-39; Pet. Exh. 10,
depo exh. March 29, 1994, Friend, M.D. letter to Skafidas, pp. 2-3)

i. Following Respondent’s recommended course of treatment for
Patient C.P.’s Post-Concussion Syndrome, administration of carbon
dioxide therapy, Patient C.P.'s memory impairment worsened.

(Pet. Exh. 12, pp. 34-35; Transcript, p. 257)

j. Respondent failed to keep adequate written medical records
on Patient C.P., including, but not limited to, medical history,
mental status, and physical examinations. (Pet. Exh. 9, pp. 14,
16; Pet. Exh. 10, depo exh. March 29, 1994, Friend, M.D. letter to

Skafidas, p. 4; Transcript, pp. 212-214, 216-219)

k. Respondent’s written medical records for Patient C.P. do
not justify or substantiate the‘ diagnosis of Post-Concussioﬁ
Syndrome. (Pet. Exh. 9, p. 17; Pet. Exh. 10, depo exh. March 29,
1994, Friend, M.D. letter to Skafidas, pp. 2—4)

1. Respondent failed to keep written medical records of
Patient C.P. justifying the course of treatment, carbon dioxide

therapy for Post—Concussion Syndrome. (Pet. Exh. 9, p. 19; Pet.

Exh. 10, p. 40; Pet. Exh. 10, depo exh. March 29, 1994, Friend,
M.D. letter to Skafidas, pp. 2—4; Transcript, pp. 212—214, 216—219)

m. The use of carbon dioxide therapy to treat Post—Concussion
Syndrome is not taught in medical schools. (Res. Exh. 2, p. 13;

Res. Exh. 3, pp. 15, 19; Res. Exh. 4, p. 37)

n. The use of carbon dioxide to treat Post-Concussion

Syndrome is not discussed at medical conferences. (Pet. Exh. 9, p.

20)

0. None of Respondent’s expert witnesses have hospital
privileges to administer carbon dioxide therapy to treat Post—
Concussion Syndrome. (Res. Exh. 3, p. 9; Res. Exh. 4, p. 12)

p. None of Respondent's expert witnesses use or have ever
used carbon dioxide to treat Post-Concussion Syndrome. (Res. Exh.

2, p. 15; Res. Exh. 3, pp. 15, 19; Res. Exh. 4, p. 16)

q. None of Respondent's expert witnesses know of any other

physicians, other than Respondent, who use carbon dioxide to treat
Post—Concussion Syndrome. (Res. Exh. 2, pp. 33, 35—36; Res. Exh.

3, p. 20; Res. Exh. 4, pp. 17, 19)

r. Respondent failed to practice medicine with an acceptable
level of care, skill, and treatment which a reasonably prudent
similar physician recognizes as acceptable under simiier conditions
and circumstances, in that Respondent treated Patient C.P. with
carbon dioxide treatment; and/or Respondent misdiagnosed Patient
C.P. as suffering Post—Concussion Syndrome. (Pet. Exh. 9, pp. 19-
23, 113-115; Pet. Exh. 10, pp. 35, 38-39, Pet. Exh. 10, depo exh.
March 29, 1994, Friend, M.D. letter to Skafidas, pp. 2-4)

6. Based on the evidence cited in the preceding paragraphs,
it is clear Respondent's general exceptions should be rejected.

7. It is the Hearing Officer’s function to consider all

evidence presented, resolve conflicts, judge credibility of

witnesses, draw permissible inferences from the evidence, and reach

ultimate findings of fact based on competent, substantial evidence.
See 6055 v. District School Bd. of St. Johns County, 601 So.2d 1232
(Fla. 5th DCA 1992). Clearly, the Hearing Officer’s findings were
supported by competent, substantial_evidence.

8. It is the Hearing Officer’s function in an administrative
proceeding to act as trier of fact and the Hearing Officer is
privileged to weigh and reject conflicting evidence.

See Cenac v. Florida State Bd. of Accountancy, 399 So.2d 1013
(1981).

9. In response to Respondent’s arguments that he should be
awarded reasonable attorney fees and costs in this matter,
Petitioner asserts that since Respondent is not a prevailing small
business party as defined by Section S7.111(3)(c), Florida
Statutes, Respondent is not entitled to any fees or costs.
Respondent’s request is clearly not ripe since the Board has not
yet entered a Final Order in this matter.

10. Respondent argues that any discipline imposed should be
retroactive to the date of the filing of the Administrative
Complaint in this cause. Respondent fails to cite to any authority
to support that position. Respondent's argument in this regard is
offensive to traditional notions of due process and justice and

should be rejected.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner files this Response to Respondent's
Exceptions to Recommended Order and “requests the Board DENY

Respondent’s Exceptions for the reasons stated herein and at the

formal hearing.

Respectfully submitted,

Mééf

Arthur B. Skafidas

Senior Attorney

Florida Bar No. 0867160

Agency for Health Care
Administration

Northwood Centre

1940 North Monroe Street,
Suite 60

Tallahassee, FL. 32399-0792

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
Petitioner’s Response to Respondent’s Exceptions to Recommended
Order has been furnished by U.S. Mail to Joseph Paglino, 11601
Biscayne Boulevard, Suite 301, North Miami, Florida 33181 this 12th

day of June, 1995.

Arthur B. Skafldas
Senior Attorney

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner, CASE NO. 0106456
v.
MICHAEL GILBERT, M.D.

Respondent.

/

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINQ

 

COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner", and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against MICHAEL GILBERT, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent", and aileges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes, Chapter 455, Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
licenSe number ME 0004260. Respondent's last known address is
1200 Biscayne Boulevard, Miami, Florida 33152.

Facts Relating to Patient {1

3. On or about March 26, 1984, until on or about June 4,
1984, Respondent treated Patient #1 for, but not limited to, pain
in the right hip and right leg. On or about March 26,1984,

1

Respondent diagnosed Patient #1 as suffering from Post—Concussion
Syndrome.

4. Respondent failed to keep adequate written records of
Patient #l's medical history, mental status, and physical
examinations. Respondent's medical records do not justify the
diagnosis of Post-Concussion Syndrome.

5. Respondent recommended and treated Patient #l's
condition with carbon dioxide treatments. Carbon dioxide
treatments are not accepted as a therapeutic modality for Patient
#1'5 condition, Post—Concussion Syndrome.

6. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that level
of care, skill and treatment which a reasonably prudent similar
physician recognizes as acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances, in that Respondent treated Patient #1 with carbon
dioxide treatments; and/or Respondent misdiagnosed the patient as
suffering from Post-Concussion Syndrome.

7. From on or about March 27, 1984, until on or about May
19, 1984, Patient #1 was referred to three different specialists,
a neurologist, a general practitioner, and an orthopedic surgeon,
on seven different occasions. .

8. Although Respondent referred Patient #1 to the
specialists mentioned above, Respondent failed to appropriately
respond to the information received from those consultants in a
manner which would lead to the formulation of an appropriate
diagnosis for the patient, and the implementation of an

appropriate treatment plan for the patient. The failure to so

respond constitutes a failure to practice medicine with that
level of care, skill and treatment which a reasonably prudent
similar physician recognizes as acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances.
COUNT ONE
9. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through five (5) and seven (7) as if fully set forth herein this

Count One.

10. Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of Patient #1.

11. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.33l(l)(m), Florida Statutes, in that Respondent
failed to keep written medical records justifying the course of
treatment of the patient, including, but not limited to, patient
histofies, examinatieh results, and test results.

COUNT TWO

12. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

through and eight (8) and ten (10) as if fully set forth herein

this Count Two.

13. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, in that Respondent is
guilty of gross malpractice or the failure to practice medicine,
with the level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized
by a reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable

under similar conditions and circumstances.

Facts Relating To Patient £2

14. From on or about September 28, 1987, until on or about

October 3, 1987, Respondent treated Patient #2 for complaints of

headaches, dizzy spells, postural syncopy, and pain in the back,

neck, and right ankle, among other conditions not named here.

Respondent diagnosed the patient as suffering from Post-

Concussion Syndrome.

15. Respondent's medical records failed to address Patient

#2'5 past medical and social history.

16. On or about September 28, 1987, Respondent performed a

neurological evaluation of Patient #2. The only negative

clinical finding was a 4 + postural syncopy. Said neurological

examination was incomplete and the clinical findings are not

explained by the Respondent’s diagnosis of Post Concussion

Syndrome for Patient #2.

17. On or about October 3, 1987, Respondent performed an

EEG Test on Patient #2. Respondent's records did not adequately

document the need for the EEG testing.

18. Respondent's evaluation of said EEG test was

unacceptable and below the standard of care.

COUNT THREE

19. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one

(1), two (2), and fourteen (14) through seventeen (17) as if

fully set forth herein this Count Three.
20.

justifying the course of treatment of Patient #2 including, but

not limited to the following: Respondent's records of Patient #2

4

failed to provide an adequate medical and social history;
Respondent's records of Patient #2 failed to justify any
diagnosis of Patient #2; and Respondent's records of Patient #2
failed to justify the need for the EEG test of Patient #2.

21. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, in that Respondent
failed to keep written medical records justifying the course of
treatment of the patient, including, but not limited to, patient
histories, examination results, and test results.

COUNT FOUR

22. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs fifteen

(15) through eighteen (18) as if fully set forth herein this

Count Four.

23. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that level
of Care, skill and treatment which a reasonably prudent similar
physician recognizes as acceptable under similar conditions and

circumstances.

24. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, in that he is guilty of
gross or repeated malpractice or the failure to practice
medicine, with that level of care, skill, and treatment which is
recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physician as being
acceptable under similar conditions and circumstances.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following

penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,

violation of Chapter 458 as alleged in the Amended Administrative

Complaint.
ELEQLE§§_QE_EAQI
l. The Hearing Officer’s Recommended Findings of Fact are

approved and adopted and are incorporated herein by reference as
the Findings of Fact of the Board in this cause.

2. There is competent, substantial evidence to support the

Board’s findings herein.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. The Board has jurisdiction over the parties and subject
matter of this case pursuant to Section 120.57 and Chapter 458,
Florida Statutes.

2. The Conclusions of Law of the Recommended Order are
approved and adopted and incorporated herein.

RULING ON RESPONDENT’S EXCEPTION TO RECOMMENDED PENALTY

Respondent’s Exception to any Recommended Penalty of the
Hearing Officer that the penalty should not be applied
retroactively to the date of the filing of the Amended
Administrative Complaint, is rejected for reasons stated in the

Petitioner’s Response.

DISPOSITION
Based upon the Recommended Findings of Fact and Conclusions of
Law, the Hearing Officer recommended the following penalty:
1. That the Respondent is guilty of violating Sections
458.331(1)(m) and (t), Florida Statutes as charged in Counts I and
II of the Amended Administrative Complaint. Counts III and IV of

7

restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board
deems appropriate.

SIGNED this ISE%~day of §§Zi§iéé£24£%” , 1991.

George Stuart, Secretary
ﬂ ﬂw
M
By: S ephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

COUN S EL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr. ' F I L E D

 

Senior Attorney Department of Professional Regulatiod

Florida Bar No. 0788643 AGENCYCLERK

Dept. of Professional Regulation (,

1940 N. Monroe Street, Ste. 60 (L).

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792 ( ><g; : CAL

(904) 488—0062 , OL""”
‘ ELERK

PCP: 1—28-91 "‘

R

Burt, Campbell, Wertheimer DATE

the Amended Administrative Complaint are dismissed.

In light of the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of
Law the Board hereby determines that pursuant to Rule 59R—8,
Florida Administrative Code, the penalty recommended by the Hearing
Officer as set forth in the Recommended Order is excessive. The
Board imposes the penalty as set forth below.

WHEREFORE, it is found, ordered and adjudged that the
Respondent is guilty of violating Section 458.331(1)(m) and (t) of
the Amended Administrative Complaint and Counts III and IV are
dismissed and pursuant to Rule 59R-8, F.A.C., the Board of Medicine
imposes the following penalty:

1. Respondent’s shall receive a Letter of Concern.

3. The Respondent shall pay a fine of $1,000, within thirty
(30) days of the filing of the Final Order in this cause.

This Final Order becomes effective upon its filing with the
Clerk of the Agency for Health Care Administration.

NOTICE

The parties are hereby notified pursuant to Section 120.59(4),
Florida Statutes, that an appeal of this Final Order may be taken
pursuant to Section 120.68, Florida Statutes, by filing one copy of
a Notice of Appeal with the Clerk of the Agency for Health Care
Administration and one copy of a Notice of Appeal with the required
filing fee with the District Court of Appeal within thirty (30)

days of the date this Final Order is filed.

DONE and ORDERED this [EL DAY OF 4 , 1995.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

// -
r‘a/& g

GARY . WINCHESTER, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

 
  
 

 

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
Final Order and its attachments have been forwarded by U.S. Mail to
Michael M. Gilbert, M.D., 1250 N.W. 7th Street, Suite 201, Miami,
Florida 33180, Joseph Paglino, Esquire, 11601 Biscayne Boulevard,
Suite 301, North Miami, Florida 33181, J. Stephen Menton, Hearing
Officer, The Desoto Building, 1230 Apalachee Parkway, Tallahassee,
Florida 32399-1550 and by hand delivery to Larry G. McPherson,
. Jr., Chief Medical Attorney, Agehcy-for Health Care Administration,

1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792 on this

]CTﬂ1 day of gégﬁﬂgﬂgicgﬂ , 1995.
Mn/W

Marm Harris, Ed.D.
Executive Director

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE
ADMINISTRATION,
BOARD OF MEDICINE,

Petitioner,

vs. CASE NO. 93-2858

MICHAEL GILBERT, M.D.,

vvvvvvvvvvv

 

co _
(J1

Respondent. :1 i t
:2 11
mo "‘ i
g. .
j i." 37‘

_.

\

BECQMMENDED QRDEB _

Pursuant to notice, a formal hearing was conducted in this 4
J? A
he ;s
case on May 25 and 26, 1994, in Miami, Florida, before J. Stephen
Menton, a duly designated hearing officer of the Division of

Administrative Hearings.

APPEARANQES

‘For Petitioner: Arthur B. Skafidas, Esquire .
Agency for Health Care Administration
1940 North Monroe Street
Suite 60

Tallahassee, FL 32399-0792
For Respondent: Joseph Paglino, Esquire
Suite 301
11601 Biscayne Boulevard
North Miami, Florida 33181
T M E
The issue in this case is whether disciplinary action should
be taken against Respondent’s license to practice medicine based
upon the alleged violations of Section 458.331(1), Florida
Statutes, set forth in the Amended Administrative Complaint filed

by Petitioner.

