 

 

II
[.4
1
i

' AMI- a

'HEPEETMEHT n? PROFESSIﬁHAL
-REEEEJEEION, DATE-

5 ‘ .FILED

taiiE-ﬁ
DE ﬁtment of F'rwfess vna1 REEu
pa « EEENEE ELEPK . '

Q (gym

  
 
  

DEPARTMENT 9F PﬁﬂFESSIDHAL REGULRT'
BOARE DE HEEIEIHE

CtEﬁK'

  

Petitioner,

—vs~ EPR CEEE RUBBER: DIGTSEE

LICEHSE- NUMBER: ME Uﬂﬂﬁﬁﬂﬂ
CHRIS A. vﬁﬂSICKLE, H.D.,

Resgﬂhdent.

I

FIHEL ORDER

 

THIS.HATTER came befare the Board Ef Medicine gﬁaard]
pursuant to Sectiun 12ﬂ.5T{3}, Florida Statutes, on April 6r
lﬂﬂﬁ, in Tallahassee, Florida, for conaidezation of a Stipulation
{attached hereto as Exhibit A} entereﬁ into hetwgan thE'partiE5‘
in the abuve—styled ease. Upon cmnaiderntion of the Etipulatiéh,
the documents Eubmittad in suppnrt thereaf, the arguments 0f thﬂ
gartiEE. and being otherwise advised in tha premisesJ the Eﬂard
amended the Stipulation propoaed at the hearing. which amendment

was accepted without objectiun by ha parties.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulatian ﬂﬁ
submitted ha and hereby is approved and adopted in tata and
incorporated by refarence herein with the change that the tim&
within which the fine referred to in paragraph 2 at the
Stipulatad Dispositinn 15 to be paid i5 reduced to thirty [3U]
days.

Accordingly, thE partiea shall adhere to and abide by the

terms and canditinns of the Stipulation as amandad,

 

1'53 - .-

 

Dapartmént uf_ Prﬂfeasionnl Regulation.

 

_This Brae: Lukas effect upan fi1ing w‘iL-h Lhe Clerk of the

13mm mm anﬂsa'an this 1.5 _day ed: 1991:}

 

 

39m hr: MEMCINE -

 

EEETIFIM u? ‘sﬂﬁﬂcx

I HEREBY CERTIFY ﬁhah a true and'cngxécL-ccgy_of the
fareguing order has bean provided by aertiiied @ail Lo EhLis A.
Vansickle, H-D., 1535 R. 31523 Dr1ve, TEllaﬁEsaea} Flmridg QEBUH
and Eyrﬂn Matthews, ALLDEney at Law, McDermdtﬁ, Will and Emary,
?UU Erickell Avenua, Miami, Florida 33131 and'by interpffice
delﬁvery to Susan Lnehn, Attarney at Law. ﬁépartment of

PIDfEBSiDnﬂl Regulation, Eorthwoad Centre, 1946 Nnrth mmnroe

Street, Tallahaﬁsaa, Florida 32359rﬂ792. at Dr hafﬂfe 5:90 9-H-

this 30 day UL 533m, , 199a.

Orders/VanSickle

 

 

. swam EIF .FLQEIDA _
nspmmwr ' 919* pksssssmm; REGULATION

UﬁgﬁﬂmﬂENT OF PRUFEEEIOHEL
REGULATION,

Pstitinner,

sass tsss NO. 39-3192
vs. spa sass ms. 0101353

CHRIS A. ?AHSICKLE, M.D.,

Rsspsndsnt.

.; _

Chris A. UshSiskls, M.D., hereinafter referred to ss
Rsspsndsnt, and the Department of Prafessisnal Regulation,
hereinafter referred to as Department, hereby stipulate and
agree to the fsllswing jsint Stipulation and Final Drdsr sf
the Hoard of Medicine, hereinafter referred ts as _Essrd,
incorporating this Etipulstian and the agrssment in the shaves
styled manner.

EIIEULAIEE_EEEIS

1. At all timss material hereto, Respondent was a
licensed physician in the State c Florida having been issued
license number ME ﬂUZESDﬂ.

2. Respondent was Charged by an Administrative
Csmplaint filed by 'hs Derrtmsnt and prspsrly served upon
Rsspshdsnt with Vlwlstiuns of Chapter 453, flarids Statutss,
and the rules enacted pursuant thsrsnn. A true and csrrect
copy of the Administratius-‘Csmplsint is attached thELQ snﬁ

incorpnrstsd by ererencﬁ as Exhibit A.

 

. . _ - . . p. -
n... _ ﬂ . . . >
3: x. I r a

3: -'Réapnndﬁnt neithar_aﬁm1ts'nor denﬁes tng-allegaticna'
of gféﬁ; -Umntained in the ;Adm£ﬂistratima témgigint attached 5,

.hﬁneﬁgwaa.ﬂxhibit A.

 

l. Raapcndant, in hia cagacity aa'a licennﬁd ﬁhgﬁicign, ﬂ {..T
admits that in auch cayacity he is Subject ta the piaviaians.v J
Gf Chaptara 455 and 453, Florida St;atu’tgiiafﬁrg.r and the __W
juriaﬂictimn of tha Dapartment and the Beard.

2. Reapandent admits that the fanta Bet féith in the?
faregning StipukatEd Factﬁ, if pruven, cuggtitute viﬁiatidﬁa
of Chapter 453, Florida Statutes, a5 ullaged in .the
Administrati?a Camplaint. -

EIIEHLEEED4DIEEQEEIIQH

1. Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters
455, 453 and 393, Florida Statutea, 0: the rulqﬁ pxﬁmuigated
pursuant thereta.

2. The Buard shall impeae an adminiﬁtratiVe fine in-the
ammunt of $Eﬂﬂ.ﬂﬂ against the Respundent. The fine shall b9
paid by the RespnndEnt to the EKECUELVE Director of the Enard
within six manths Df its impoﬁition by Final Order Of thE
Board.

3. It is EKPEEESLY understand that this Stipulatimn is
subject to the approval of the Board and the Department. In
this regard, the foregaing paragraphs (and only the foragaing
paragraphs cf the Stipulated Patna, Stipulated ﬂoncluaions at
Law and Stipulated Dispositimn shall have n0 force and effect

unless a Final Order i5 entered. incnrpurating the terms GE

this Stipulatiun. by the Euaxd

 

4- Sheuld this Stiguletidh: be rejected,. no etatemEnt
made} er infermatieh submitted, by the Reegendent ct hie
agents, either directly er inﬁireetly may he used a5 direct
evideﬁce against. the Respendeht. in; any proceeding; howeveﬁ,
eueh (statements may only be used by the Petitioner ;fet‘
imgeachment.

5. Eeepehdent and the Department fully understand that
this jeint Etiguletieh and aubeequent Final Order
ineergereting heme will in ne way preclude additipnﬁi
proceedings by the Eeerﬁ aﬂdfﬂt' the Deﬂﬂrtmﬁﬁi against the
Reepehdeht Ear acts at admieeiene net egeeifieelly set ferth
in the Administrative Cemplaiht attached as Exhtbit ”A”
herein.

6‘ Upon the Beard‘e adegtien of this Stipulation.
Respondent expressly waives all further procedural stEps, and
expreesly waivee all rightﬁ t0 SEEK judicial review ef er to
etherwiee challenge or contest the validity' of the joint
Stipulation. of facts, cencluaiena ef law“ and impeeition 0f
discipline} and the Final Order at the Beard. interpereting
eeid Stipulation.

7. Upon the Board's adeptien ef this Stipulation, the
yartiee hereby agree that each party will hear his mun
atterney'e fees and costs resulting item FIOSECutiGﬂ andfer
defenee ef this preceedinq. Respondent maivea the right to
geek any attorney‘s fees 0: tests from the Department in

cehneetien with this Jiaripltnary preceedingi

 

 

 

ﬁx Th-is Stipulatipn i3 exacuﬁed by 'the Respﬂndent for'
the puwuaa of avmidiﬂg fugt-he; adminiﬁtratiﬁa laction withf
gaggagz-t :9 1:11:55 cause. _ In this regartt, Ragganﬁant authorizes
thé=»ﬂﬂazd ta review and EXaminE Tall. 1nysatigatLVE $119
mafariaiﬂ cuncarning ‘Reapondent priqr tn ’ar in cnngunctiqﬁ
with consideration of the Stipulation. Furtha‘r-more, £551);th
{this jaint S'tiPul-atimn nut be l_accépted by the ”B‘natd, it iai
a'gﬁfg‘d that presentatinn tau, and cuneidqraﬁion ﬁt this
Stipulation and“ ether: dbcumanta- and mattara by the Board éhall

nut unfairly Dr illegally grejudice‘tha Boagd-n: any of iis

 

membﬁra from furthér participation, conaiﬁeratian~ or

r&aolutian Of these prﬂceedings.

SIGNED this Erin day of g'wd-a‘qmi ., 713.89.

     

V'anéiekler “MID.
Sworn to and subgcribad ;
hefere me this Eia- day

cf Lﬂgﬁg @1589.
V "" GEM

    

Hy Cummiasian Exgirea:
numm mauc. STATE DFF mm

M? COMMIE'EIOH EIFTHES:JL1L‘P ."Ii. 'I'iII'I.
ﬂDnnI-D nilu na‘l M" ruiuc UHﬁI-il'l'ﬂl’l'llfl.

APPROVED this LS'b-d'ay .. Mg ‘II 2&6! ,. 1959-

Larry Gonzalez
Secretary

 

Ctﬁaf ﬁadmﬂ ﬁtturnay
ﬂadical Eﬂr'tiau

SLjdr
ﬁQXZUfBB
1154

    

.,-r.unqmﬁv qubm
" 1.?‘-‘_ti“"“; .- ! *‘n-zf-aw

 

. swamﬁ'mr FLQEIEE
uarmnwnnnm GF‘ERGEEESEEHHL Rﬂﬁﬂﬁbmlﬂﬂ

DEFARTMEET OF PRUFESSIONEL J
REGULA$IUH, J
Petitioner, ;
v3. i EHEE NO! 010?353
mmnsa.wmmEM£,mm. i
Respondent. i
Hﬂﬂiﬂiﬁmﬂbllﬂﬁ_ﬂﬂﬂﬂnﬁlﬂl

CDEES HUH, the Petitioner, Department of Prufggéiunal
Ragulatign, harainaftar referred to as ”Petitioneré, and files
this Administrative Complaint hefnre the 'Eﬂard cf Medicine
against Chris A. vanaickle, H.D., hereinafter rafarrad 'to‘ as
"Respondent”, and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency chargad with
regulating the practice at medicine pursuant to Sectimn Zﬂ.35,
Flﬂrida Statutﬁs: Ehapter 455, Flﬂrida Statutes; and Chapter 453,
Flcrida Statutea.

2. Respondent is, and 1 E been at all times material
haratﬂ, a licensed Physician in the State 0f Florida having been
issued License number ME ﬂUEEEGG. Respondent'e last knuwn
address is 1635 H. Plaza Drive, Tallahassee, Florida 32303.

3, From ﬁn Dr about May 26, 199?, until an GT abnu: ﬂay
13, 1983, Resgondent employed Dahcrah Susan JﬂCUb-Brﬂtthtﬁn as
hiﬁ physician‘a aﬁsistant.

4, At all timaa material t0 this Cﬁmplaint and during the
caurse ﬁt the ﬂiUEEEﬁLd @mulsyment, Debayah guﬁﬂ“ Jacmb—

Brotherturn was nan licensed aa a Phyniﬂiﬁﬂ'ﬁ assistant in the

.iii =‘.ﬁgc

State Bf Flgrida;

5. At all times'ﬁatérial :0 this @ﬁmplaiﬁt and during thé
caurse of the aforasniﬁ.em§1¢3ment, the Rasphhﬂaﬁt knew nr.3hhﬁlq
haﬁe,knawn.that Debarhh Sagan Jacoh-Hruttgptnn has not iﬁcenhgﬁ.
as a phyﬁician{s aasiathnt in the State 65 qufiﬂa,'; ~ V

E. Reapnndent, in his practiCE- hf Jnﬁhiéiﬁe? aidad an
unlicensed paxﬁun tn practice medicina and déléqahad profasaihnaﬁ
reaﬁanaibilitiea t0 a.gerson nﬂt qualified by'liﬁenhe, t0 wit» by
amyiaying Deberah Euﬁgn Jacnbpﬂrathartmﬂv a£.'hia -ph3$i;ian'a'
aaﬁiﬁtant.

mm mm

7. Petitioner reallegea and incorporates by referhnceithh-
allegatinna contained in paragraphs one {1} thruugh'fiye {5) as
if fully Eat forth hazein thiﬁ Count One.

3, Reapendent knew or ahmld nave Rama: that. 1r} his
practice of madicine, did employa Deborah Snghh Jaﬁnhqﬂfdtheftan
as his physicians assistant while she waﬁ unlicensed as 7a
physician's assistant.

9. Based an the fnreguing, Rﬁﬁyﬂﬁdﬁﬂt has vihaahgd
Section 458.331(1}{f}, Flﬂrida Statutes, by aiding, aEEiEting,
procuring. 0r advising any unlicensed perﬂon to practice medic;ﬂe
contrary to this ChﬂLLEf or ta a rule of the department or the
haard.

CﬂﬂﬂT Iﬂﬂ
Petitiuner realleqea and inﬂnrporatas by refgrance
the allegatiana CuntaLned [n paragrapha one [1+ thraugh rive {5|

as if fuliy set fanh herein thia Count Tum.

I]. PELILLDHEI n: his practice CH medicina, delegated

 

 

i - ,
{I ' '

r&appnﬂibili-ﬁ‘iﬂg-. to Deborgﬁ ﬁnal-g-g-J&{Jéb-Brothéﬁﬁnn,-'-1_~.;hi1~e'tha #35:.
mgrt- ,‘cfuaggitied by liﬂ‘vaglgulfﬂ-‘tn¥p“‘er£ﬁrrﬁ_' sugh‘dutiigy, I I

I 12'. Baaéd- on the fqra_gging,. E.éhﬁg@ﬂgﬁ1§_l_li1q‘s ﬁinlatédi
Séctioﬂ 453,3.3-1{1}{'w3 , F'lori'éa Stattlltes; 1 ﬂy delﬁgating.
.me'ass‘iqnal reapdnaibilitiea to a pergbn .whéﬁ th-ea- i-igansara
delegating such responsibilitias'knnws or hag reﬁébn-tﬂ knew thatz
sueh- Eggson iﬁ not qualified .hy mzazinirfg4_r -axperiénca, _GI
lieehauﬁe to @ﬁrfﬂrm them.

WHEREFDRE} the Petitioner feapectfu11y~raqﬁﬁatﬁi$he Baird. ‘
9f Medicih'e 1:9 enter an Order mpuaing cane c5: mare Crf 12m;
£01109:ng penalties: reyecat‘iﬁn or anap‘gﬁB-ijon at .the
Reapcndént'ﬁ license, reﬁtriﬂtion df tha Respondgntla’practiceg'
mpaﬁition of an administrative fine, ismanma. of a Ii'éprima‘rid,l'
placamant 0f the Reapnndant ﬁn ptobatiﬁn, andfor gpyfpther.reli9£l

that the Board deems aggrnpriata.

SIGNED this Qrflﬂv day off _ , 1939.
_ "I muzm:

SBﬂrataIy

    

S.tEIEIi'!El-ﬂ-”E A."Daniel .
Chief Attnxney
Medical Sectipn

FILED

Depanmm 0f Prufnssinna’li Reguiatmn
AGENCY CLERK

CDHHEEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

ﬁﬁbmn Hyman
' Senior Attarney
Dayartment cf Prufeaaicmal
Regulation >
133 North Monrne Street. 5 “Q f“ .'
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0159 Lay“

{91214343134352 CLERK

 

011ka mu: :2 ._ 3:1?- 83 .

PCP:

 

