FILED
DenarhhentoanMeseonalRegubﬁon
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULHEEGNYCLEW<

BOARD OF MEDICINE (’ //#_
'0
@)5J V.
bu”
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL . JOLI’JF”

 

REGULATION, CLERK
Petitioner, DATE._C£Z::JEEL:£ELL______
-VS- DPR CASE NUMBER: 0107877

_LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0020417
ALLEN R. SKLEROV, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.5?(3), Florida Statutes, on February 2,
1991, in Tampa Elerida, for consideration of a Stipulation
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties
in the above-styled case. Upon consideration of the Stipulation,
the documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulation as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the
Stipulation.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department.

DONE AND ORDERED this \9 day of M7 , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

    
 

ZACHARIAH, M.D.

 

ZACHARI
CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Allen R.
Sklerov, M.D., 4804 25th Street, West, Bradenton, Florida 34207;
Glenn Woodworth, Attorney at Law, Witner Centre West, 5999
Central AvenUe, St. Petersburg, Florida 33710, and L.W. Blake
Hospital, 2020-49th Street W., Bradenton, Florida 34205, and by
interoffice delivery to Bruce D. Lamb, Attorney at Law,
'Department of Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940
North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Floriga 32399-0792, at or

before 5:00 P.M., this /é? day of 2.4:5wﬂu /- , 1991.

 

Orders/SklerovA 2/2/91

next meeting of the Probation Committee. Absent said aggraval

ResEondent shall not Qractice medicine until a monitoring
phzsician is aggroved.

!

j. Respondent -shall submit quarterly reports, in
affidavit form, the contents of which shall be specified by the
Board. The reports shall include:

i. A brief statement of why the physician is
being monitored.

ii. A description of practice location.

iii. A description of current practice (type and
composition).

iv. A brief statement of compliance with
monitorship terms.

v. A description of his relationship with the
monitoring physician.

5. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply
with the terms of the Final Order issued based on this
Stipulation. Such costs include, but are not limited to, the
cost of preparation of semi-annual investigative reports

detailing compliance with the terms of this Stipulation, and the

Board's administrative costs directly associated with
Respondent's monitorship. See Section 458.331f2), Florida
Statutes.

6. It is expressly understood that this Stipulation is

subject to the approval of the Board and the Department. In this

000011

-._n-.,.——_— Wuynh.-. -._. i.__...m.‘...-a-.—sr _... ,.....¢-.—..._ -. u.»‘. .--.. .. -77...._...\....‘..._.. ”4“.“4au—u... .1. .-- .

regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing
paragraphs of the Stipulated Facts, Stipulated Conclusions of Law
and Stipulated Disposition) shall have no force and effect unless
a Final Order is entered incorpotating the terms of this
Stipulation, by the Board.

7. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the
meeting of the Board whereat this Stipulation is considered.
Respondent, in conjunction with the consideration of this
Stipulation by the Board, shall respond to questions under oath
from the Board, Board Staff or Department Staff.

8. Should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement made
in furtherance of this Stipulation, by the Respondent may be
used as direct-evidence against the Respondent in any ptoceeding,
however, such statements may be used by the Petitioner for
impeachment.

9. Respondent and the Department fully understand that
this joint Stipulation and subsequent Final Order incorporating
same will in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board
and/or the Department against the Respondent for acts or
omissions not specifically set forth in the Administrative
Complaint attached as Exhibit "A" herein.

10. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation,
Respondent expressly waives all further procedural steps, and
expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to
otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the joint

Stipulation of facts, conclusions of law and imposition of

u
1

00001;?

discipline, and the Final Order of the Board incorporating said

Stipulation.

11. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation, the
parties hereby agree that each party Jill hear his own attorney's
fees and costs resulting from prosecution and/or defense of this
proceeding. Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's
fees or costs from the Department in connection with this
disciplinary proceeding.

12. This Stipulation is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials and other
materials concerning this matter prior to or in conjunction with
consideration of the Stipulation. Furthermore, should this joint
Stipulation not be accepted by the Board, it is agreed that

presentation to and consideration of this Stipulation and other

documents and matters by the Board shall not unfairly or
illegally prejudice the Board or any of its members from further

participation; consideration or resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED this 6; day of [&_WZM , 1990.

Sworn to and subscribed
ore me this .6 day

     
 

My Commission Expires:

NOTARY PUBLIC; SYATE OF FLORIDA A‘l L.
MY COMMISSION EXPiRES AUGUST 01, I994
BONDED THRU HUCKLEBERRY I ASSOCIAT“

APPROVED this

/r7#‘~ day of DOLLAPOC/L,

Larry Gonzalez
Secretary

By: Stephanie A.
Chief Medical
Attorney

3

1990.

Daniel

000014

PROVISIONS REGARDING MONITORING PHYSICIANS

 

Indirect Sugervision is supervision by a monitoring
physician whose responsibilities are set by the Board. Indirect
Supervision does not require that theymonitor practice on the
same premises as the Reapondent, heuever, the monitor shall
practice within a reasonable geographic proximity to Respondent,
which shall be within 20 miles unless otherwise provided by the
Board and shall be readily available for consultation. The
monitor shall be board-certified in the same specialty area in

which Respondent practices.

The monitor must be a licensee under Chapter 458 Florida
Statutes, in good standing and without restriction or limitation
on his license. In addition, the Board may reject any proposed
monitor on the basis that he has previously been subject to any
disciplinary actiOn, or is under investigation concerning his
medical license in this or any ether jurisdiction. The Monitor
must be actively engaged in the same or similar specialty area
unless otherwise provided by the Board. The Board may also reject

any proposed monitor for good cause shpwn.

DOOM-

.4

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL ,3‘
REGULATION, . ”‘

Petitioner,
CASE NO. 0107877

ALLEN R. SKLEROV, M.D.,

Respondent.

/
MW

 

COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against Allen R. Skierov, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes, Chapter 455, Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Fiorida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been
issued license number ME 0020417. Respondent's last known
address is 4804 26th Street, West, Bradenton, Florida 34207,

I 3. From on or about July 7, 1983, to on or about April

20, 1986, Respondent provided medical care and treatment to

patient #1.

0000935

x

a

/

{55?};
k

2V

4. On or about July 7, 1983, patient #1 was first seen by
Respondent as a referral for voiding problems. Respondent
diagnosed patient #1 as having benigﬁiﬁrostatic hypertrophy
(BPH). h

5. On or about September 19, 1983, patient #1 was
admitted to the hospital with progressive voiding difficulties
and Paget's disease of the bone, and a preoperative diagnosis of
BPH.

6. On or about September 20, 1983, Respondent ordered an
intravenous pyelogram (IVP) on patient #1. The radiology report
revealed a large right upper pole mass, and included the
radiologist's suggestion of an ultrasound for further study.

7. On or about September 20, 1983, Respondeht performed a
transurethral resection of the prostate, with incision of the
bladder neck.

8. On or about September 24, 1983, Respondent discharged
patient #1 with orders to return to Respondent's office two weeks
later. The patient was ambulating well and having good control
of urination.

9. On or about January 1, 1986, patient #1 was admitted
to the hospital with a principal diagnosis of renal cell
carcinoma, right kidney. Also included in the admitting
diagnosis for patient #1 were lung metastases, colon polyps,
Paget's disease of the bone, and diabetes mellitus—insulin
dependent.

10. On or about January 3, 1986, Respondent performed a

right radical nephrectomy on patient #1. The tissue report

0009] '3

r”; a

:-

confirmed clear cell carcinoma with perinephric soft tissue
extension.

11. On or about January 11, lﬁﬁﬁi patient #1 was
discharged. The discharge summary, dictated by Respondent,
acknowledges that the tumor found in patient #1 was evident on
the IV? taken on or about September 20, 1983.

12. On or about May 1, 1986, patient #1 expired, and the
attending physician indicated the cause of death was cancer of
the kidney.

13. Oh or about September 20, 1983, Respondent failed to
tead the radiologist's report on the IVP, but only looked at a
couple of the films on the viewer in the operating room, and
failed to document the results of the IV? in patient #1'5 medical
records.

CQHHI_QHE

14. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through thirteen (13) as if fully set forth herein this Count
One. I

15. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that level
of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances, in that Respondent failed to read
the radiologist's report of the IV? on or about September 20,
1983, and failed to diagnose patient #1's renal mass.

16. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Segtion 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, by gross or

repeated malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with

000015

«is s?

that level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized as
being acceptable under similar conditions and circumstances.
mm '

17. Petitioner reaileges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through thirteen (13) and fifteen.(15) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

18. Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of patient #1, in that
Respondent's records for patient #1 fail to justify the reason
why Respondent did not read the radiologist's report of the IVP,
‘and thereby misdiagnosed patient #1's renal mass, and that
Respondent failed to document the results of the IV? in patient
#l's medical recordsa

19. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, by failing to
keep written medical records justifying the course of treatment
of the patient including, but not limited to, patient histories;
examination results; test results; records of drugs prescribed,
dispensed, or administered; and reports of consultations and
hospitalizations.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Re5pondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board
i »

deems appropriate.

UUWHIJ

65% 55%

SIGNED this 5751 day of (M , 1990.

Lar¥§,G0nzalez, Secretary

 

    

By: tephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson

Senior Attorney

Florida Bar No. ‘788643

Dept. of Professional Regulation
1940 N. Monroe Street, Ste. 60
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792

(9 ) 488—0062
gai/BG/ecs ,

000020

5

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE BEARINGS

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

DOAH CASE N0.: 90-5017
vs. DPR CASE N0.: 0107877

ALLEN R. SKLEROV, H.D.

Respondent.

/

SIIPULﬁIIDN
Allen R. Sklerov, M.D., referred to as Respondent, and the
Department of Ptofessional Regulation, referred to as Department,
stipulate and agree to the following joint Stipulation and Final
Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as Board,
incorporating this Stipulation and agreement in this case.
STIPULATED FACTS

1. At all times material to this matter, Respondent was a
licensed physician in the State of Florida having been issued

license number ME 0020417.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules
enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the

Administrative Complaint is attached and incorporated by
reference as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations

000003

of fact contained in the Administrative Complaint attached as
Exhibit A.
STIPULATED CDHCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. Respondent, in his capacity as a licensed physician,

admits that in such capacity he is subject to the provisions of
Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of
the Department and the Board.

2. hespondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, attached hereto as Exhibit "A", if
proven, would constitute violations of Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative Complaint.

STIPULATED DISPOSITION

1. Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters
455, 7458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated
pursuant thereto.

2. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in the
amount of $2,000.00 against the Respondent. The fine shall be
paid by the Respondent to the Executive Director of the Board
within thirty (30) days of its imposition by Final Order of the
Board.

3. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand from the
Board of Medicine.

4. Effective on the date of the filing of the Final Order
incorporating the terms of this Stipulation, Respondent's

practice of medicine shall be monitoﬁed for a period of one year.

000004

The terms and conditions of monitorship shall include:

a. Respondent shall comply with all state and federal
statutes, rules and regulations pertaining to the practice of
medicine, including Chapters 455, 458; and 893, Florida Statutes,
and Rule 21M, Florida Administrative Code.

b. Respondent shall appear before the Board's
probation committee at the first meeting after said monitorship
commences, at the last meeting of the probation committee
preceding termination of monitorship, and at such other times as
requested by the committee. Respondent shall be noticed by the
Beard Staff of the date, time and place of the committee
meetings. Failure of Respondent to appear as requested or
directed shall he considered a violation of the terms of this

Stipulation, and shall subject the Respondent to disciplinary

action.

c. In the event the Respondent leaves the State of

Florida for a period of thirty days or more or otherwise does not
engage in the active practice of medicine, in the State of
Florida then certain provisions of Respondent's mouitorship (and
only those provisions of said monitorship) shall be tolled as
enumerated below and shall remain in a tolled status until
Respondent returns to active practice in the State of Florida.
Respondent must keep current residence and business addresses on
file with the Board. Respondent shall notify the Board within

ten (10) days of any changes of said addresses. Furthermore,

000005

m7 .- "J... - . u. -..~--'¢a-.—- :.. --..—._—;.aa.-.- . .. - 1.1“- 4.4:... .r'hr..I-c,w':._~- -}._‘..-' .--. “If“ 2" "‘—'- ‘ -' u- -

Respondent Shall notify the Board within ten (10) days in the

event that Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine in
Florida.
I

d. In the event that Respondent leaves the active

practice of Medicine in the State 6f Florida, for a period of
thirty days or more, the following provisions of his monitorship

shall be tolled:

i. The time period of monitorahip shall be

tolled.

1;. The provisions regarding supervision whether
direct or indirect by another physician, included
in paragraph 40 below.

'111..The provisions regarding preparation of
investigative reports detailing compliance with
this Stipulation.

e. In the event that Respondent leaves the active
practice of medicine for a period of one year or more, the
Probation Committee may require Respondent to appear before the
Probation Committee and demonstrate his ability to practice
medicine with skill and safety to patients prior to resuming the

practice of medicine in this State.

f. The Respondent shall institute and present to the
Board of Medicine the details of a quality assurance plan, which
he shall develop for ensuring accuracy in the review of teat
results and patient medical records.

3. Respondent shall not practice except under the

n

I
indirect supervision of a physician fully licensed under Chapter

000005

W gm-..” ‘_,_ '-__P_ -- , .- . A u...“ _.. ...‘ .,__‘.,,_‘,_._, .. p-“-—uwhi--l-I‘A tug -wu;‘u__..__.u—a--u --~

458, Florida Statutes, approved by the Board's ProbatiOn
Committee. Respondent shall have the proposed monitoring
physician with him at his first appearance before the Board's
Probation Committee. Prior to shproval of the monitoring
physician by the cemmittee, the Respondent shall provide to the
monitoring physician a copy of the Administrative Complaint and
Final Order filed in this case. A failure of the Respondent or
the moaitoring physician to appear at the scheduled probation
committee meeting shall constitute a violation of the Board's

Final Order. Prior to the approval of the monitoring physician
by the committee, Respondent shall submit to the committee a
current curriculum vitae and description of the current practice
from the proposed monitoring physician. Said materials shall be
received in the Board office no later than fourteen days before
Respondent's first scheduled appearance. The attached provisions
regarding monitoring physicians are incorporated herein as part
of the terms and conditions of this Stipulation. The
responsibilities of the monitoring physician shall include:
i. Respondent's monitoring physician shall
appear before the probation committee at
Respondent's first appearance, and at such other
times as directed by the committee. It shall be
Respondent's responsibility to ensure the
appearance of his monitoring physician as

requested or directed. Failure of the monitoring

.4‘.

U 0 U U L‘ "J

physician to appear as requested or directed shall
constitute a violation of the terms of this
Stipulation and shall subject the physician to

disciplinary‘action.

ii. Respondent's monitoring physician shall
submit reports on a quarterly basis, in affidavit

form, which shall include:
a. A brief statement of why physician is
being monitored.
b. A description of Respondent's practice.
c. A brief statement of Respondent’s
compliance with terms of the monitorship.
d. A brief description of Respondent's
relationship with monitoring physician.

e. A description of any problems which may

have arisen with Respondent.
Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that the monitoring
physician submits the required reports.
iii. Respondent's monitoring physician shall
review twenty (20) percent of Respondent's patient
records on a random basis at least once every
month, for the purpdse of aseertaining whether
Respondent is practicing within acceptable

standards of care.

iv. The monitoring physician shall report to

000005

._ ._.__ .. __ ._.. .- .- _..... .— 5...... _-.- —..---.-......_.-n.-._i.,.

-.x..\.. “-4... -.~r.‘_..r.n....._u _ .4 w“). -4... .. _

the Board any violations by the Respondent of

Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the

rules promulgated pursuant thereto.

h. In the event that the Respondent's monitoring
physician is unable or unwilling to fulfill his responsibilities
as a monitoring physician, as specified above, then the
Respondent shall immediately advise the Board of this fact.
Respondent shall further submit to the Chairman of the Board's
Probation Committee the name of a temporary monitoring physician
for approval. Prior to the approval of the monitoring physician
by the committee, Respondent shall submit to the committee a
current curriculum vitae and a description of the current
practice from the proposed monitoring physician. .Said materials
shall be received in the Board office no later than fourteen days
before Respondent's first scheduled appearance. The Reapondent
shall not practice pending approval of this temporary monitoring
physician by the Chairman of the Probation Committee.
Furthermore, Respondent shall make arrangements with his
temporary monitoring physician to appear before the Probation
Committee at its next regularly scheduled meeting, for approval
of the monitoring physician by the Committee. Failure to appear
by the monitoring physician as directed shall constitute a
violation of the Board's Final Order. ReSpondent shall only

practice under the auspices of the temporary monitoring physician

U[}H[)Ht‘

Lkl

(approved by the Chairman) until the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Probation Committee whereat the issue of the
Committee's approval of the Respondent’s new monitoring physician

!

shall be addressed.

i. The Board shall confer authority on the Chairman of
the Board's Probation Committee to temporarily approve
Respondent's monitoring physician. In order to obtain this
temporary approval, Respondent shall submit to the Chairman of
the Probation Committee the name and curriculum vitae of the
proposed monitoring physician. This information shall be
fﬁrnished to the Chairman of the Probation Committee by way of
the Board of Medicine's executiVe director, within 48 hours after
Keepandent receives the Final Order in this matter. This
information may be faxed to the Board of Medicine at (904) 487—
9622, or may be sent by overnight mail or hand delivery to the

Board of Medicine, at the Department of Professional Regulation,

1940 North Monroe Street, Suite 60, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-
0750. In order to provide time for Respondent's proposed
monitoring physician to be approved or disapproved by the
Chairman of the Probation Committee, respondent shall be allowed
to practice medicine while approval is being scught, but only for
a period of five working days after Respondent received the Final
Order. If Respondent's monitoring physician has not been
approved during that time frame,. then Respondent shall cease

practicing until such time as the monitoring physician be

approved, said approval shall only remain in effect until the

0006-;

f
u

i

