FILLED

DE' )E'r.‘ _"|'Ilr .
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGUMTIDH}; '_' I'II_;‘II' "3‘ "‘“m
BOARD OF MEDICINE HEHI"'”
{dad‘- .44 I
_,_ l' .f w
_"'\-. .-'- I.I l .'-
[_ _,r“"‘" x_x/ -.-" i ,
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL “~——e’ " t~mgf,,.a
REGULATION, CLE€ﬁ
_e_ﬁ____“_h__h_
Petitioner, DATE e .r ’;

—v5- DPR CASE NUMBER: Ulﬂ8629

LICENSE NUMBER: ME ﬂﬂ312?8
CEShR F. SAHMEENTD, M.D.,

Respondent.

ﬁ____5____ _____ f

 

FINAL ﬂﬁﬂﬁﬁ

THIS MATTER came before the Beard ef Medicine {Beard}

pursuant to Seetien 120.5?(33, Florida Statutes, on August 3,

1991, in Palm Beach, Fierida, fer censideratiun of a Stipulatieh

{attaehed hereto as Exhibit A} entered into between the parties

in the abeve—styled case. Upon consideration of the Stipulation,

the documents submitted in suppnrt thereof, the arguments of the

parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises, the Board

rejected the Stipulation proposed and offered an amendment at the

hearing, which amendment wae accepted witheut objection by the

parties.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulation as
submitted he and hereby is approved and adegted in tete and

incorporated by reierehee herein with the fellewing changes t0

Paragraph 5. ef the stipulated dispesitien:

5. Reependent shall not make application to the Drug

Enfurcement Administratiun fur a registration to prescribe,

diepense er administer controlled substances fer at least ene

year, and unti] SuEh time as he receives autherizatien from the

Beard Le make such applicatien. If the Board gives the

Respondent eutherizatien to apply, the Beard may impose

conditiene and restrictions on Respondent's preeeribing.

dispensing er administering of controlled substances including a

prehibitien against Heependent stocking Schedule ll through v

narcetice in his office.

Aceerdingly, the parties shall adhere te and abide by the

terms and conditions ef the Stipulation as amended.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk ef the

Department of Professional Regulation.

meme AND ORDERED this 35 ’ day ef Lu wilrw

.e,.. . , 1991.'

BOARD OF MEDIC

       

ZACHARIAH P. ZACHARIAH, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

QEETIFICATE eF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the

foregoing Order has been previded by certified mail te Dr. Cesar

F. Satmiente, efe Selvetere A. Carpine, Esquire, One North Dale

Mebry, Suite lﬂlﬂ, Tampa, Florida 33609, and by intereffice

delivery to Bruce D. LambIr Chief Trial Attorney, Department of

Prefeeeienel Regulation, ?EU 3. Sterling Street,

Suitejl:
Tam a, Florida 33509, at or before 5:0U P.M., thie aLj-L day at

i;;;£t22=h_____ 1991-

 

 

ﬂrder. If Respondent's meuitoriug physician has not been

approved during that time frame, then Reeyendent shall cease

practicing until such time as the mouitering phyeitien 15

approved, said appruvel Shall only remain in effect until the

next meeting of the Prmhatien Committee. ﬁbreut

4 said eEptevel

Res endent medicine until a menitering

shall not

       

           

tactice

Physician is approved.

—-u-—_._._.—___

i. EespondEnt shall submit quarterly reports, in
affidavit farm, the contents ef which shall be specified by the
Heard. The reports shall include:

i. A brief statement of why the physician is

en probation.

ii. A description of practice leeetiﬂn.

iii. A description of current practice {type and
composition}.

iv. A brief statement of eamplianee with
prehetinn terms.

v. A descriptiun ef hi5 relatiunehip with the
monitoring physician.

j. Respondent shall enmply with all of the terme and

conditions ef this Stipulation.

L

n. Respondent shall not ceneume aleehul.

l. Resyundent shall participate in end eemply with

the Fletida Physician's Reeevery Netwutk. Respondent shall enter

into an after care contract with the Physicians'e Recovery

Hetwerk and shall eeuee the Hetwerk to tend to the Board a eepy
of the after care eentreet entered into. Respondent shall comply

with all of the eenditieus of his after care contract with the

Florida Medical Foundation's Physician's Recovery Network.

Reependent shall Execute a release for the theicien*s Reentery

Network to authorize the Network to release infezmatien tn the

Heard of Medicine as needed te monitor prugresa in the Hatvnrk‘e

program.
m. Respondent shall cause the director of the

Physicians' Recovery Network to report te the Beard of Medicine

any problems that may occur with Respondent and any violations ef

Chapter 458, Florida Statutes. Reependent shall cause the

director to make such a report within 30 days of the eeeurrenee

of any prehleme, er vielatiene of Chapter #58, Fleride Statutes.

n. Respondent shall attend AA er HA, and Caduceus

meetings on a EEEquenty te be specified by the Physician's

ReCUVery Network.

0. Reapnndent shall submit tn random bleed and urine

testing for the purposes of ascertaining Reapeudeet's templieuee

With hiefher probation. The random bleed audio: urine screen

shall he tendueted a5 felluws:

1. An investigate: ehall at unaenuuneed timee

present himselffhereelf to the Reependent and shall

10

request that the Respondent furnish a Specimen ef
hleed endfer urine to the ieveetigater.
ii. The Reependeet shell, upon such request,
immediately previﬂe said bleed eeefer urine
epeeimen and shall provide it in the pregenee ef
the investigator.
iii. Respondent shell net at any time refuse to
provide the requested specimen.
iv. Reependent shall, at the time that the
epeuieen 1e furnished, advise the investigate: ef
iii drugs er medieetieee taken by the Respondent
(whether legend drugs or ever the counter
medieetiens} in the period since the last reudee
specimen was obtained. Failure te euheit to e
~ random bleed audio: urine eereee shall constitute a
vieletien ef the terms of this Stipulation.

5. ReepeedEnt shell not make application te the Drug

Enforcement heminietretien fer a registretiee to prescribe,

dispense er administer eeetrelled substances fer at least one

year, and until such time at he receives authorization free the

Bnate Le make such application. If the Eoerd gives the

Reeeeneent authorization to applyJ the Beard may impeee

ceuditiene and restrictions en Respondent's presarihing,

dispensing er administering ef eentrelled substaneee.

h. Respondent shall pay all tests necessary te eeeply

ll

with the terms of the Final ﬂrder issued based on this

Stipulation.’ Such essts include, but are not limited to, the
sust of preparation sf semi—snnual investigative reports
detailing esmplisnce with the terms uf this Stipulation, and the
hnsrd‘s administrative costs directly assstisted with
Respsndent‘s pruhetisn. See Seetian £58.331QE}, Florida

Statutes.

T. It is expre5sly usderstnsd that this Stipulation is

sthjett to the apprsvsl ef the heard and the Department. In this

regard, the foregoing paragraphs {and only the fﬂrepging

I‘ll

paragraphs DE the Stipulated Facts, Stipulsted Conclusions of T1

.. 1:.- TH”

and Stipulsted Disposition} shall have us force and effect unless

a Final Grier is entered interpersting the terms of this

StipulatisnJ by the Beard.

5. RespsndEnt shall appear before the Board at the

meeting of the Beard whereat this Stipulation is esnsidered.

Respondent, in conjunction with the consideration sf this

Stipulatisn by the Board, shall respsnd to questiess under oath

frsm the Essrd, Esatd Staff at DepartmEnt Staff.

9. Should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement made

in furthersnee of this Stipulatien, by the Respondent say he

used as direct evidence against the Respondent in any pteteeding,

hUWEVErJ such statements may he used by the Petitioner fur

impeachment.

10, Respundent end the Department fully understand that

12

this joint Stipulatien and suhaequent_Final ﬂrder iuserporatieg
same will is no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board

andeI the Department against the Respondent fer acts or

omissions net specifically set forth in the Administrative

Cemplaiut attached as Exhibit "h" herein.

11. Upon the Board‘s adeptisn of this Stipulatieu,

Respondent ezptESsly waives all further procedural steps, and

expressly waives all rights to Seek judicial review of or to

otherwise challenge or tentest the validity of the joint

Stipulatien of facts, eentlusiens of law and imposition of

discipline, and the Final ﬂtder of the Beard incorporating said

Stipulation.

12. Upon the Board’s adaption of this Stipulatiee, the

parties hereby agree that each party Will hear his own attorney‘s

fees and costs resulting free prosecution andfst defense of this

reeeedin,. Res endent waives the right to seek an etterne 's
P E F Y a

fees or tests from the Department in eeuneeticn with this

disciplinary proceeding.
13. This StipulatiOn is executed by the Respondent fer the

1u: use of awoiding further administrative aetien with res eat to
I- P P

this cause. In this regard, Respendeat authorizes the Board ts

review and examine all investigative’ file materials and ether

materials eeneeruing this matter print to st in conjunction with

consideration of the Stipulation. Furthermete. should this 'eint
J

Stipulation net he accepted by the Board, it is agreed that

presentatien to and censideraténn of this Stipulatien ans ether

13

documents and matters by the Enard shall no: unfairly D:

JEEugallg prejudice the Bnard at any uf its members from futher

particigutiun, causiﬁeratiﬂn at resolution Bf these proceedings.

in!

EJGLFD :hLE 1?? i‘ day 0f

 

Swarm :0 and 5Lb5crihed

Etfur;hune [Hi5 {3 day

 

t»! v
4

Eummission Expirea:

:1-;?=n‘r max sun: or mm
55: Effﬂ-EISSIDH m mm: 199:: '
.-L.!!..-::.- man SEEM ma. L'nm ‘ f

..-.I=§-1ac*;31} this 3353 .1- day cu: --J UU'L _. Iain.

Gemrge Stuart
Searetary

1

I.

F"
- r1; . McPhersc-m Jr.
Chief ﬁkﬂical Attorney

    

”KH-
‘\1

 
    
   

,ry
3Y1!

Inn
.h—

PEUTISIUHE REGARDING HUNITGRIHG PHYSICIAHE

Indirect SuEervisiee is supervision by a monitoring

phyeician whose responsibilities are set by the Beard. Indirect

Supervision does net require that the meniter practice on the

Same premises as the Reepeedent, however, the monitur Shall

practice within a reasenahle geographic proximity ta Respondent,

which shall he within 20 miles unless etherwise provided by the

Beard and shall he reaﬁily available for eenSultatiee. The

meniter shall he heerd—eertified in the same Specialty area in

which Keepandent practices.

The monitor must he a licensee under Chapter 458 Florida

Statutes, in 300d standing and without restrictinn or limitation

en his license. In addition, the Eeatd may reject any proposed

meniter en the basis that he has previously been subject to any

disciplinary aetien, or is under inVEELigatiun eeneeruing his

medical license in this or any ether jurisdiction. The Heniter

must he actiVely engaged in the same or similar specialty area

unless otherwise provided by the Board. The Board may also

reject any prepesed meniter fer geeﬁ cause sheen.

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PRDFESEIGNAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

PETITIONER,

V5+ CASE He. 0105529
CESAR FERNANDEE EARHIENTO, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
f

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

 

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional

Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner,” and files this

AdministratiVe Cempleint before the Board of Medicine against

CESAR. FERNANDEZ SARMIENTQ, M.D., hereinafter referred te es

”Respendent," and allegEe:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with

regulating the practice of meﬁieine pursuant to Seetien 2U.3ﬂ,
Florida Statutes; Chapter £155Ir Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458,
Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is end has been at all times materiel
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been
iSeued license number HE ﬂﬁBlETB. Respondent’s last known address

is Durham EGUng Clinic, 102? Meet Main StreetF Leesburg, Florida,

32?4B.

3‘ On or about March 8, 1989, during an interview with

Drug Enforcement Administration Agents {DEA}, Respondent admitted

 

 

to being addicteﬁ te Demerel from on or about April 1993, to en er

about Heveﬁher 1993.
4. During the eeurse of said interviewf Respondent

stated that he had used up te 599 mg. Bf Demerel per day {ten 1 cc.

injections a day} in the evenings at his home.
5. During the aforementioned interview, Respondent

stated that he would write prescriptions fer Demerel 59 ml.

{39 ml.

vial} and after the patients had the prescription filleciIr

they

DWI”! USE .
5. On or about May 5, 1999, Respendeht surrendered

tuelve [12} empty vials ef Demereljheperidine Hydrochloride 59

mg.fml. {39 m1. vials} te DEA agents, that came frem Respondent’s

heme, and three {3} vials of DemerelfMeperidine containing the

following quantities: 30 ml, 11.5 ml., and 31 ml.

T. On er abeut. June 19, 1990Ir Respondent, in an

interview with Petitioner's investigator, stated that he had abused

Demerel.

9. Demerel is a legend drug pursuant to Section

465.903ﬁ?}, Florida Statutesr which eenteins meperidine, a Schedule

II eentrelled substance listed in Chapter 393, Flerida Statutes.

COUNT CINE

9. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs

one (1) through eight [3}, as if fully set ferth herein this Ceuht

One .

10. Respondent preeeriheﬂ and administered a centrelled

substance other than in the course of the physician’s professional

practice, in that Respenﬁent prescribed 3U ml. vials ef Demerel te

petiente, administered one {1) er twe [2} injectiene to patients,

and used the remainder for himself.

11. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Seetien

458.331{l]{q}, Flerida Statutes, by prescribing, dispensing,

administering, mixing, er etherwiee preparing a legend drug,

including any eentrelled substance, ether than in the ceuree of the

physician’s prefeesienal practice.
DDUH'I" TWO

12. Petitiener realleqee and incorporates paragraphs

ene {1] through eight {3), and ten (1D), as if fully set ferth

herein this Count Two.

13. Respondent administered a medicinal drug appearing
on any schedule set forth in Chapter 893 by the physician te
himself, in that Respondent injected himself with up to EDD mg. of

Demerel per day, and he prescribed 30 m1. vials ef Demerel te his

patients: administered ene {1} er two (2} injections to patients,

and administered the remainder to himself.

14. Based en the feregeing, Respendent violated Section

458.331{l](rj, Florida Statutesr by prescribing, dispensing, er

administering any medicinal drug appearing on any schedule set

Earth in chapter 393 by the physician to himselfIr extept ene

 

1|.
4.

STATE BF FLURIDA
DEPﬂRTHEHT UF PRGFESSIDREL REGULATIDN

DEPARTMENT DP PREFESSIDHEL
REGULEIIDH,

Petitioner,

V5_ EFE CASE HD.: 9133529
CESAR F. SARHIEHTU, H.D.,

Respondent.

1"

 

STIPULEIIDN

 

ﬂesar F. Sarmiente, H.D., referred to as RcEpUﬂdEﬂt, and tha

ﬁepartment of Prefessienal Regulatian, referred to as Department,

stipulate and agree Le the fullewing joint Stipulation and Final-

Drder ef the Heard of Medicine, referred to as Beard,

iusurpuratiug this Stipulation and agreement in this case.

STIPULATED FACTS

 

1. At all times material to this matter, Respondent has

bass a licensed physician in the State of Florida having been

isaued license number HE DD3IEFB.

2. Respaudent was charged by an administrative Compl,'
filed by the Department and praperly served upon Reapasdent with

violations of Chapter @531 Florida Statutes, and the

rules
enacted pursuant thereto. a true and correct copy of th
Administrative Complaint is attached and iucsrparated by

reference as Exhibit a.

3. Respeaﬂeat neither admits nut denies the allegations

at fast contained in the Administrative Cnnplaint attaches as

Exhibit a.

prescribed, dispensed, er administered to the physician by another

practitioner authorized to prescribe, dispense, er administer

medicinal drugs.

WHEREFDRE,

Beard ef Medicine enter an Order imposing one or mere Df the

fellewing penalties: reveeatien or suspension ef the Raspondent’s

license, restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of

an administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, andfor any other relief that the Beard

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this éﬁdey of Egg: Lt: ﬁgihﬂ ,

George Stuart
Secretary

  

Stephanie Daniel

Chief HethaF tttEfn [ﬁm
CGUNSEL FDR DEPARTMENT: Dam””“

Wﬁ'urinm

Larry McPherson, Jr.
Senior Atterney

Department 0f Prefeesienel
Regulation

1940 North Monroe street
Tallahassee, Flerida 32399-UT50

CJRgtc

PCP: February 22 1991
Vitale Ashkar and Skinner

 

STIFULATED CGHCLUSIDHS ﬂF LAH

 

1. Respondent, in his capacity as a licensed phyeicien,
admits that in such capacity he is subject tc- the pruvieiens of

Chapters 455 and £58, Fluriﬁe Statutes, and the jurisdiction 9f

the Department and the Board.

2. Reagendent ad‘mite that the facts set forth in the
ﬂﬁminiSLIatiVE Eempleint, attached hereto as Exhibit ”A”, if
preven, wmuld eunetitute violations of Chapter £58, Florida

Statutes, as alleged in the hdminietretiVe Complaint.
STIPULAIED DISPDSITIDE

1. Respondent shall net in the future vielete Chepters_

£55, #53 end 893, Florida StatutesI er the rules premulgeted

pursuant thereto.

2. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in the

amount of $3,DUD.UD against the Respondent. The fine $hall he

paid by the Respondent tn the EXEEutiVE Director of the Euarﬁ

within iEﬂ days of the entry of a Final Grder interperatihg this

Stipulation.

J. The Respendent shall receive a reprimand from the

heard of Medicine.

4. Effective 0n the date of the filing of the Final Grder

ineurpuratihg the terms DI thie Etipuletien, Respondent‘s license

te practice hf medicine shall he he probation for a period of

five years. The terms and conditions of probation shall include:
a. Respondent shall eemply with all state and federal
statutes, rules and regulations pertaining to the practice of

medicine, including Chapters #55, £58, and 893, Florida Statutes.

and Rule 21H, Florida Administrative Code.

h. Respondent shall appear before the Board's

probation committee at the first meeting after said prnhetihn

commengeg, at the last meeting of the probation thmmittee

preheding tetmiﬂetihh of prohatian, annually and at such other

times as requested by the tummittee. Reapundent shall he nhticeé

by the Board Staff of the date, time and plate of the cmmmittee

meetings. Failure of Respunﬂent to appear as requested GI

directed shall he considered a violation of the terms of this

Stipulatiuu, and shell subject the Heepondent tn disciplinary

action.

engage in the active practice of

Florida then certain prhvisiuns of Reapundent'e probation [*“d

ail.

only these provihihns of saiﬂ probation} shall he tolled as

eauaerated below and shall remain in a Eulled status until

Respondent returns to active practice in the State of Florida.

Hespnndent muet keep current reeidenee end husiuees addresses on

file with the Board. Respﬂndent shall notify the Board within

ten {1G} days Of any ehangee of said addre$ses. Furthermurej

Heepnndent shall notify the Board within ten {1U} days in the

event that Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine in

Florida.

d. In the event that Keepandent leaves the active

practice of Hedicine in the State Of Florida, for a period 0f

thirty days ﬁr more, the following provisions of his probation

shall he tolled:

i. The time period of probation shall be

tolled.

ii. The provisions ragarding supervisius by

another physician, included in paragraph hf below.

iii. The ptevisieus regarding preparation hf

iEVEEtigatiVE reports detailing cemplienee with

this Stipulation.

e. In the event that Respondent leaves the active

practice of medicine for s peried of ane year or more, the

Probation Csmmittee may require Respundent to appear before the

Probation Committee and demonstrate his ability to prattiee

medicine with skill and safety to patients prior to resuming the

practice 0f medicine in this State.

F

t. Respondent shall not practice except under the

indirect supetvisinn vi a physician iully licensed under Chapter

£58, Flutida Statutes, spprevsd by the Board‘s PrﬁhatiUn

Csmmittee. Respendent shall have the pruposed monitoring

physician with him at his first appearance before the Board's

Probation Cﬂmmittee. Print to approval of the menitsring

physician by the committee, the Respondent shall provide to the

munitnting physician 3 espy ef the Administrative Complaint and

Final ﬂrder filed in this case. A failure of the Respondent DI

the monitoring physician ta appear at the scheduled Prubatign

.42..

eemmittee meeting shall cunetitute a iioletien of the Beerd's

Final Drder; Print to the approval of the monitering physician

by the eenmittee, Respondent shall submit tn the eemmittee a

current Curriculum vitae and description of the current erectiee

from the ptepesed menitorﬂng physician. Said materials shall he

raueived in the Board affine no later then fourteen days before

Respondent‘s first scheduled appearance. The attached provisions

regarding menitoring physicians are ineerperated herein as part

ef the terms and eﬂeditieee of this Stipulation, The

IESpunsihilitiEe 0f the meuitﬁring physician Shall inﬁlude:
i. Reepuudent's monitoring physician shall
appear before the probation committee at

Ree enﬁent'e fitst ap earenee end at such other
P P :1

times as directed by the committee. It shall he
Keepandent'e reepeneibility to eneure the
appearance 0f hi5 menitoring physician as

requested or directed. Failure of the monitoring
phyeieien to appear as requested or directed shall
constitute a vielatien of the terms ef this
Stipulation and shall subject the physician to

disciplinary action.

ij. Respondent‘s munituring physician rhell

.e

submit reports an a quarterly basis, in affidavit

fetm, which shall include:

e. A brief statement of why Respondent ie on

probation.

h. A description of Respondent‘s practice.

a. A brief statement of Respendeut's

compliance with terms of the probation.

d. A brief deseriptinn of Respondent's

relationship with munituriug physician.

e. A deseriptinn 0f any problems which may

have arisen with Respondent.

Reapondeht shall he reaponsihle for ensuring that

the monitoring physician submits the required

reports.

ili. Respondent's mnnitnring physician shall, on

a monthly basis, review twenty {2G} percent of

Respondent's patient reunrds fur patient's seen

within the last munth, selected by the monitor on
a :andem basis. Reapendent's monitoring physician

shall review the patient records and prescriptions

of all patients receiving controlled subs"
if Reapundent TECEiVES authority tn prescribe *

controlled eubetances. Said review shall he 5

the purpose of ascertaining whether RESpoudent is

practicing within acceytahle standards Df care,

and maintaining adequate medical records. in this

regard, Reapondent shell maintain a log cf all

patients eeen including the date, locatiuu, name

of patient and diegnesiS. Respnndent Shall make

this log available to his manitur.

AI‘J:

iv. The menitoring physician shall report to

the Board any violations by the Reagendent of

Chapters 455 and #55, Florida Statutes, and the

rules promulgated purSuent thereto.

3. In the event that the Respondent‘s monitering

physician is unable er unwilling to fulfill hie responsibilities

as a meuitetine physician, as specified above, then the

Respondent shall immediately advise the Board of this fact.

Respondent shall further submit to the Chairman of the Heath‘s

Probation Committee the name of a temporary monitoring phyeicien

for approval within EEVe days. If the proposed temperary_

meeiteriug physician is dieeppreved the Keepandent shall he

nntified of the disapproval within five days. Eespendent may

then submit the name of a new proposed temporary monitoring

phygician fer eeneideretien. Submission and considEratiDn shall

he EOVEIﬂEﬂ by the time periuds tet forth aheve. In ne case

shall Respondent prettiee without 3 monitor, approved by the

Chairman, for more than thirty days. Eutthetmere, Respendent

shall make arrangements with his temporary monitoring physician

to appear, with the Respondent, before the Probation Committee at

ite next regularly scheduled meeting, for apprDVal ef the

munitoring physician by the Committee. Prior to the approval of

the meniterﬁng physician by the committee, Respendent shell

submit to the hemmittee a current curriculum vitae end a

deactiptimn of the current practice Erum the prupused monitoring

physician. Said meteriele shell be received in the Board office

nn later than fourteen days hefnre Respondent's scheduled

appearance. Failure to appear as directed shall tnnstitute a

violatiﬁn at the Euard's Final Drder. Respondent shall only

practice under the euspices-nf the temper"

{approved by the Chairman} until the next regularly scheduled

meeting nf the Prnhetinn CommitEEE whereet the

Cnnmittee‘s approval nf the Respondent's new nnnitnring physician

shall he addressed.

h. The Board shall thnfer authority on the Chairman nf

the Board's Probation Cnmmittee tn temporarily EPPIDVE

Eespnndent's mnnitnring physician. In order to obtain this

temporary approval, Respondent shall submit to the Chairmen nf

the Probatinn Committee the name and curriculum vitae of the

proposed mnnitnring phvsicien. This information shall he

furnished tn the Chairman of the Prnhatinn Committee hy way of

the Board nf Medicine's executive director, within 48 hnurt after

Rag?aﬂdﬂnL receives the Final Grder in this matter. This

Hedicine at (9m) 48?—

9522, or may he sent by overnight mail or hand delivery to the

Board 55 Medicine: at the Department of Prnfessinnel Regulation,

lgﬁU Horth Henrne StreetJ Suite 601 Tallahassee, Florida 32399“

ﬁ?50. In order tn provide time for RhEpanﬁent's propeaee

monitoring physician to he approved nr disapproved hv the

Chairman at the Prnhetion Committee, IEEPDﬂdEﬂE shall he allowed

tu practice medicine while approval is being Enught, but only for

a perind of five working ﬂags after Respondent received the Final

