PL: 619M

FILED

Depnrlment ef Prefessienal REEU'F‘HDH
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGUIHEBﬂDICLERK

BOARD OF MEDICINE cf.

    
 
   

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL

 

REGULATION, CLERK
Petitioner, DATE WJ—
-vs- DPR CASE NUMBER: Ulﬂﬁlg?

LICENSE NUMBER: ME DU35973
EL?IRA GARCIA TENEYS, M.D.,

Respondent.

X

FINAL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER was heard by the beard ef Medicine pursuant to
Seetien 120.5?{3], Florida Statutes, on June 1, 1991, in Orlando,
Florida. The Board considered the prepesed stipulation entered
into by the parties in this cause which is attached to this Final
Order. Petitioner was represented by Bruce D. Lamb, Senior
Attorney. Reapendent appeared at the hearing with Harold Cease,
Esquire. The parties had been properly noticed oi the hearing.
The Beard rejected the prepesed stipulationr but offered a
counter stipulatien which provides that Respondent's license to
practice medicine receive a REPRIMAND; that Respondent be
assessed an administrative fine of $5,DUG, with said
administrative fine te be paid to the Executive Director of the
Board ef Medicine, 194D North Menree Street, Tallahassee, Florida
32399—D15ﬂ, within thirty {30] days of the effective date of this
Final Order; that Respondent successfully pass the SPECS
examination within six months of the effective data of this Final

Order; and that the probation set ferth in the proposed

stipulation in this matter be imposed with the fellewing changes,
Respondent shall practice only under indirect Supervision by a
licensed physician not involved in the same practice as
Respondent, said supervisor shall review 25% of Respondent's
patient recerds and lﬂﬂ% of Respondent's patient records fer

these patients referred for cardiovasCuler testing, and

Respondent shall complete one hundred {169} continuing medical

education hours per year during her probationary peried with SuCh

hours being in the areas at general and family practice.
The parties accepted this counter stipulation at hearing.
Aceerﬁingly, it is ORDERED AND ADJUDGED:
1. The proposed stipulatien, amended as set forth in this
Final Order, is hereby APPROVED AND ADOPTED and incerperated

herein by reference.

2. Respendent shall adhere t0 and abide by all the terms
and conditions of the stipulation, as amended.
3. This Final Order shall be placed in and become a

permanent part of the Respondent's official record with the

heard.

4. This Final Order becemes effective upon being filed with

the Board Clerk.

:1. Respondent agrees to the issuance of an emergethe}I suspension order by the
Seetetat'}r cf the Department upon a ﬁnding of prehahle cause to believe that the terms of this
Stipulation, as ineerperated by a Fine] Order, have been violated.

a. Respeniient shall pay all costs necessary to comply with the terms of the Final
Etrtier issued based on this Stipuiatien. Such costs include, but are net limited to, the east of
preparatietn of investigative reports detailing eemplianee with the terms [if this Stipulation and
the Beastl’s administrative costs directly asseeiated with Respentient's prehatien. See Section

453 .331 [2), Flerida Statutes.

5. Respendenfs Iieeuse to practice medicine shai] he hereinafter restricted in the

following manner:

a. Respondent's ptaetiee shail be Limited to practicing solely in the area of
general practice.

6. It is expresst understood that this Stipulation is subject ten the approval of the Board
and the Department. 111 this regard the foregoing paragraphs {and rant},F the foregoing paragraphs
ef the. Stipulated Facts, Stipulated Cenelusiens of Law and Stipulated Disposition] shall have
he force and effect unless a Final Order is entered ineorperating the terms hi this Stipulation,
by the Beard.

T. Respondent shall appear before the Beard at the meeting whereat this Stipulation is
eensidered. Respendent, in eenjunetihn with the eensideration of this Stipuiatien h}; the Board,
shall respend t0 questiens under eath item the Beam. Board Staff or Department Staff.

8. Sheuld this Stipuiatien he rejected, no statement made in furtherance of this
Sﬁpulatiton h}; the Respondent ma},F he used as direct evidence against the Reapendent in any
proceeding. Hewever, such statements ma},r he used by the Petitioner fer impeachment
purposes.

9. Respondent and the Department 111in understand that this joint Stipulatien and

subsequent Final Order ineerpurating same will in ne way preclude additienal proceedings by

S

the Beard antlt'nr the Department against the Respondent for acts or admissiens not speciﬁcally

set forth in die Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit "A" herein.

It]. Upon the Board‘s adeptien of this Stipulation, Respondent expressly waives all
further procedural steps, and eiqzitessl}r waives all rights to seek judicial review of or te
otherwise challenge er contest the validity of the joint Stipulation of facts, eeneIusiens of law
and impesitien of discipline, and the Final Order of the Beard incorporating said Stipulation.

11. Upon the Beard’s adoption of this Stipulatien, the parties hereby agree that each
party will hear his awn attemey’s fees and costs resulting from prosecution antii’er defense ef
this proceeding. Respondent waives the right to seek an},r attorney's fees 01' costs from the
Department in connection with this diseipIinary proceeding.

12. This Stipulatien is executed by the Respondent for the putpese of avoiding further
administrative action with respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board
te- review and examine all investigative ﬁle materials concealing Respendent prior to Dr in
eenjunetien with eensidetatien ef the Stipulation. Futthermtire, sheuld this joint Stipulatien not
he accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentatien to and consideration of this Stipulatjen
and ether tineuments and matters by the Beard shall net unfairly er illegally,r prejudice the Board

at 3113' of its members from further participation, consideration m" reselutien of these

preceedingsi

SIGNED mm L clay of M34 y,
Elvira Garcia Tenrys. M. D.

Svmrn to and Subscﬁbcd
befcrre, me this. 1 day

Of ?:ﬁéj. '5 13:} M

 

NOTARY PUBLIC unmet H5 1: s. m T,“ 9:13,
H~;_;{a~ca;15}ﬂh-’:F.JE:L‘1'EEE1933
My Commissinn Expires: 5. h".'E;E- mu F: u; m m. U“:- '_
APPROVED this ﬂ day of ‘ l {#5 , 1991.
Ganrgc Smart "_"'.
S&crctag :.
/- "
j
”\ Ex "
l|l .ﬂ -"

  

EQL'J, fLanyG. Me ‘ersm, Jr.
Actir‘ig Chief Aitumay

Medical Sacﬁnn

iﬂ

PROVISIONS REGARDWG h-IONITGRJI‘JGISUPERVISE‘JG PHYSICIANS

Preyisiena governing physicians ordered to work under Supervisiun hf menitering
and supervising physician.

1. DEFINTTTUNS:

Indirect supervision is supervision by a menitering physician whese
responsibilities are set by the Beard. Indirect Supewisien does not require that the moniter
practice on the same premises as the Respondent, heweyer, the meniter shat] practice within
a reasenahle geographic proximity to Respondent, which shall he within 2t} miles unless
otherwise provided by the Beard and shall he readily available for consultation. The monitor
shall he Beardheertiﬁed in the same specialty area in which Respondent practices unless
etherwise provided by the Beard.

Direct supewisien is aupewisien by a supervising physician. Direct supervision
requires that the supervise: and Respondent wet}: on the same premises. Speciﬁc
responsibilities are set hy the Beard. The Supervising physician ahaii he heaId-eertiﬁed in the
same specialty area in which Respondent praetiees, unless ethenyise provided by the Beard.

II. Provisions ghyerning al] supervised er monitored physicians:

a. The Respondent shall net practice without a supewiserfmeniter unless

otherwise ordered by the Beard.

h. The supen'iaerimenitnr must he a iieeasee under Chapter 453, Florida

Statutes, in good standing and without restriction or limitatien on his tieense. In addition, the
Beard er Committee may reject any proposed superviaerimeniter en the basis that he has
previeusly been subject he any disciplinary action against his medical tieense in this or any other
jun'sdietjen. The supervisertmeniter must he actively engaged in the same or similar specialty
area unless otherwise provided by the Board er Committee. The Board er Committee may also

reject any propeaed aupervisertmeniter for good cause shewn.

11

STATE DP FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitisner,

vs. CASE NO. 010919?
ELVIRA GARCIA TENRYS, M.D.

Respondent.

 

BDEIHIEIEEIIEE_EDEELEIHT

COMES NOW the Petitisner, Department of Prefessienal
Regulatinn, hereinafter referred to as ”Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Cemplsint before the Heard of Medicine
against Elvira Garcia Tenrys, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respendent,“ and alleges:

1. Petitiener is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice ef medicine pursuant to Section 20.39. Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida. having been issued
license number ME UHBEETE. Respondent‘s last known address is
4894 N.W. ?th StreetIr Miami, Flerida 33126.

3. On or abeut July 13, 1988, Respondent examined Patient
#1 in response te Patient #1's ssmplaints of leg discomiert and

numbness while sitting or lying in certain pusitisns fer extended

periods of time.

4. At all times relevant hsrsto, Patient #1 was a female

non-smoksr under 30 years of age, and as such is in a group at

very low risk of cardiovascular disease.

5. Upsn examining Patient #1, Respsndsnt ordered several
tssts for PatiEnt #1 including a Complete blood workup, pulse
volume evaluation, nun-invasivs cerebral vascular studiesIr non-
invasive carotid studies, and additisnsl blmud testing.

6. Respondent thereafter billed Patient #1 a tstal of

$1,992.Dﬂ fur said tests.

T. Dn or about July 21, 1938, Rsspsndsnt diagnosed Patient

#1 as having Raynaud‘s Phenomenon.

B. As treatment far Patient #1, Respondent prescribed
calcium, magnesium, and potaSSium, at a cost of $32.00.

E. On or about July 26, 1933, Respondent psrfsrmed an
electrssardisgram on Patient #1, and billed Patient #1 $12G.Dﬂ
far same.

10. RespﬂndEﬂt thereupon diagnosed Patient #1 as having
csrebro atherosclerosis, chronic ischemic heart disease, and
peripheral vascular disease.

11. Subsequsnt examination sf Patient #1 by a cardio—
vascular surgeon revealed that Patient #1 has no major vascular
prublems, and Patient #1 has only a hereditary condition causing
p00: blood circulation when Patient #1 is sitting or lying in
certain pssitions for extsndsd periods of time.

12. The accepted treatment for Patient #1's condition is
for Patient #1 to take aspirin and avoid sitting or lying in

positions which cause restricted blond circulation.

Eﬂﬂﬂi_ﬂﬂﬂ

13. Petitisnar reallsgas and incarporates paragraphs ﬁne
{1] thraugh twelve {12} as if fully stated herein.

14. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that level
of care, skill, and treatment which is recognised by a reasonably
similar physician as being acceptable under similar conditions
and circumstances, in that, although Patient #l's complaints were
atypical of vascular abstraction, and a physical examination sf
Patient #1 would have revealed that no sariaus vascular prcblams
were present, and Patient #1 was in a very low risk group for
cardiﬂvascular disease, Respondent performed and billed Patient
#1 for a number sf expansive tests for cardiovascular disease.

15. Based on tha farsgaing, Respondent vialated Section
458.33l{l}{t}, Fiarida Statutes, by being guilty of grass or
repeated malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with
that level of cars, skill and treatment which is recognized by a

reasonably similar physician as being accaptabla under similar

canditions and circumstances.

ﬂﬂﬂﬂI_IHﬂ

15. Petitioner realiugas and incorporates paragraphs one
{1} through twelve (12}. and fourteen (14) as if fully stated
herein.

1?. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that level
0f cars, skill, and treatmsnt which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
canditians and circumstances, in that Respondent diagnosed

Patient #1 as having Raynaud's Phenomenon, and subsequently

diagnosed Patient #1 as having eerehre athereselereeie, chronic
ischemie heart disease, and peripheral vascular disease, when in
feet, Patient #1 had no major cardiovascular problems, and
Patient #1 had enly a hereditary eenditien causing peer bleed
circulation when Patient #1 wee sitting or lying in certain
positions for extended periods ef time.

18. Based en the foregoing, Reependent violated Sectien
458.331i1]{tj, Florida Statutee, by being guilty of gross or
repeated malpractice er the failure to practice medicine with
that level of care, skillr and treatment which ie reeegnized by e

reaeenably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under

similar conditions and nireumetancee.
ﬁﬂHNT THBEE

19. Petitioner reallegee and ineerperatee paragraphs one
{1} threugh twelve {12}, fourteen [14}, and seventeen {1?}, as if
fully stated herein.

2H. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that level
of care, skill, and treatment which is reeegnized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances, in that Respendent prescribed

calcium, magnesium, and potassium as treatment fer Patient #1,

when the accepted treatment for Patient #l's condition would be
for Patient #1 to take aspirin and avoid sitting or lying in
positions which restrict bleed circulatien.

21. Based on the foregoing, Respendent violated Section
458.331{1]{t], Flerida Statutes, by being guilty ef gross or

repeated malpractice er the failure to practice medicine with

that level of care, skill, and treatment which is reeegnized by a

reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under

similar conditions and circumstances.

EDHHI_EDHB

22. Petitioner reallegee and incerperatee paragraphs one
{1} through twelve {12}, fourteen [14}, seventeen {1?}r and
twenty [26}, as if fully stated herein.

23. Reapendent exercised iniluence en the patient or client
in such a manner as to expleit the patient or Client for
financial gain ef the licensee er of a third party, in that
Respondent performed and billed Patient #1 far numerous,
expensive tests on Patient #1 for cardiovascular disease when
Patient #1 was in a very low risk group for cardiovascular
disease, Patient #1 exhibited symptoms consistent with positional
bleed citeulatien prehleme and ineeneieteht with cardiovaeeular
disease, and a good physical Examination of Patient #1 would have
revealed an ahaence of cardiovascular disease.

24. Eaeed en the feregeing, Re5pendent vielated Section
458.33l{l]{n], Florida Statutes, by being guilty of exercising
influence en the patient er client in such a manner as to exploit
the patient for financial gain of the licensee er of a third
party, which shall include, but not be limited to, the promotion
or selling of serviCes, goods, appliances, or drugs.

EQHHI_ELIE

25. Petitioner reallegee and incorporates paragraphs one

{1} threugh twelve {12}, fourteen [14}, seventeen [121, twenty

{2D}, and twenty-three {23], as if fully stated herein.

26. Re5pendent failed to keep written medical reeerde
justifying the eeurse of treatment at the patient, in that
Respondent's written medical records for Patient #1 do net
justify a course of treatment for Patient #1 which consisted of a
prescription fer calcium, magnesium, and potassium.

2?. Based on the foregoing; Respondent violated Section
458.331{1}{m}, Flerida Statutes, by being guilty at failing to
keep written medical reeerde justifying the ceuree of treatment
of the patient, including, but net limited to, patient histories,
examinatien reeulter test results, recerde ef drugs prescribed,
dispensed, er administered, and reperte ef eeneultatiene and
hespitalizatiens.

WHEREFDRE, Fetitiener respectfully requests the Heard of
Medicine to enter an Order impesing one er more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension at the Reependent'e license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an

administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement at the

Respondent on probation, endfor any other relief that the Board

deems apprepriate.

SIGNED this fﬂmday of M 1939.

LRRRY GOHEELEZ, Secretary

FILED W

madman: of Prnfessiunai Hegulatian B‘x’ .- ETEPHANIE A. DANIEL
: AGENCYCLEHK Chief Medical Atterney

mgk

MHE Eigerrdggr féliF?f?

K"!
.LPL. fl _/
DUNE AND ORDERED this XJ'V day of ‘__ ,
U

1991.

EDARD OF MEDICINE

” ,9! ’0

_f#t————
ZACHAR g P. ZACHARIAH, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

 

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true 9nd correct copy of the
foregoing Final Order has been provided by certified v.5. mail to
Elvira Garcia Tenrys, M.D., :fo Harald Cease, Esquire, 2920 West
Flagler Street, Hiami, Florida 33135, and hand delivered to Bruce
D. Lamb, Senior Attorney, Department of Profeasional Regulation,
Nnrthwoad Centre, 1949 North Mnnrme Street, Tallahassea, Florida
32399—9192r at or before 5:90 P.H., this day 0f

*-

, 1991.

 

DOROTHY J. FAIRCLDTH
Exacutive Director

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Lynne A. Quimby-Pennock

Benin: Attorney

Department of Professional
Regulation

194$ North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0?50
[934} 483-0062

LAQPfdo/gs
11/1338?

STATE OF FLOREA
DWISIUN {1F ADhiINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION ,

Petitiuner,

1?. DDAII CASE NO. 90-0353
DPR CASE NO. U1ﬂ919?

ELVIRA GARCIA TENRYS, M.D.,

Respondant.
I

STIPULATIUN
Elvira Garcia Tenrys M.D., the Respondent, and I113 Departmenl of' Professional
Regulatian, rafarred to as Departmant, stipulate and agtﬁa EU the foiluwing joint Stipulation and

tn the entry of a Final Order nf ths Board of Medicine, referrad ta as Board, inmrpcraling this

StipuIatinn and the agrecmcnt in this matter.

STIPLJLﬁTED FACTﬁ
1. At all times material hereto. Respondent was a licensed physician in the: Status of
Flnritia having bcen issued licenst: number ME UGSSE’TE.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Camplajnt ﬁled by the Department

and properly servad upon Respondent with violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the:
rules enacted pursuant tharettt. A true and carrcct saw of th: Administrativs Complaint is

attached hereto and incorp-atated by raference as Exhibit A.

3. Raspundsnt neither admits nor denies the aﬂagations of fact contained in thc

Administrative Camplaint attached hereto as Exhibit A.

STJPULATED CONCLQﬁIONS QF LAW
1. Respondent, in her eapeeitg,r as a tieensed physician, admits that in sueh eepeeity she
is subjeet tn the previsiens hf Chapters 455 End 453, Florida Statutes, and the jurisdietlen ef

the Department and the Board.

2. Respendent admits that the faets set fe-th in the Administrative Cempiaint, it‘preven,

eenstitute violations of Chapter 458, Fleﬁda Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative

Cemplaint.

S'ITPLELAT'ED DISPOSITION
1. Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters 455, 453 and 893, Florida

Statutes, or the rules premuigated pursuant thereto.

2. The Board shat] impese an administrative ﬁne in the ameunt et‘ $2,DUG.DG against
the Respondent. The ﬁne shall he paid by the Reapendent t0 the Executive Directer of the
Beard within 130 days of the impesitien h)» Final Order of the Board.

3. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand frern the Beard of Medicine.

:1. Effeetive en the date ef the ﬁling of the Fine] Cheer ineerperating the terms of this
Stipulation, Respondent‘s license to practice medicine shall he placed em prehatien [er a period
ef three years. The terms and conditions ef prehetieh shall include:

a. Respondent shall eemply with all state and federal statutes, rules and
regulations pertaining te me practice ef medieine, ineluding Chapters 455', 453, and 893,
Fieriete Statutes, and Rules 21 M, Florida Administrative Cede.

h. Keepandent shall appear before the Board‘s designated preheﬁener‘s
eemmittee at the ﬁrst meeting after said probation commences, at the last meeting of the
Board‘s designated prehatihner‘s committee preceding termination ef the prehaﬁen, annually,
and at such other times as requested by the Board's prohaﬁener‘s committee. Reepondent shall
he netieed hy the Beard staff of the date, time and place of the Beard's Prehetieher‘s

Cemmittee meeting whereet Respondent‘s appearahee is required. Failure of Respondent to

appear as requested or directed shall be considered a violatien ef the terms ef this Stipuletien,

and shall subject the Respondent to disciplinary action.

e. In the event the Respendent leaves the State of Florida for a period of ttﬁrty
days or more or otherwise does not engage in the active practice of medicine in the State of
Pleride, then certain provisions et‘ Respondent‘s p‘rehatien {end th'tl},r these previsiens ef’ the
probation) shall he teﬂed as enumerated below and shall remain in a tolled status until
Respendent returns to active practice in the State of Flerida. Respendent must keep current
residence and business addresses en file with the Board. Respendent shall notify the Board
within ter: (1G) days of any changes of said addresses. Purthermere, Respondent shall netify
the Beard within ten [1(3) days in the event that Respondent leaves the active practice of
medicine in Florida.

d. In the event that Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine in this
state for a period of thin}.r days er mere, the following provisinns rat" his probation shall he
tettett:

i. The time petied of probation.

ii. The previsiens regarding supervision whether direct or indirect by
enether physician, included in paragraphs f—i helew.

iii. The previsiens regarding preparatien ef investigative repens detailing
eemphanee with this stipulation shall he teltetl. See paragraph L: below.

iv. The cemmunity service requirements detailed in paragraph 1T1 helew.

e. In the event that Respondent leaves the active practice at medicine for a
peﬁed of one yeaI er more, the Prehetieners’ Committee may require Respondent te- appear
hefere the Prehetieners’ Cemmittee and demonstrate her ability to practice medicine with skill

and safety te patients prior to resuming the practice of medicine in this State.

f. Respondent shall not practice except under the indirect supervisiun of a

physician fully licensed under Chapter 458, Ftorida Statutes, appreved by the Beasd's

3

Prohatiener‘s Committee. Absent eempiianee with the terms regarding ternperary appreval ef
a menitering physician set forth in paragraph g helew, Respnndent shall cease practice and net
practice until the thationer's Committee appreves a mnniten’ng physician. Respondent shall
have the monitoring physician with her at his ﬁrst ptehatien appearance before the Prehatiener’s
Cemmittee. Pl‘iﬂl’ to approve] of the moniten’ng physician hy the eemmittee, the Respondent

shall provide to the monitoring physician :1 eepy of the Administrative Cemplaint and Final

Order ﬁled in this ease. A failure of the Respondent or his meniten‘ng physician In appear at
the scheduled prehatien meeting shall constitute a vihiatieh ef the Beard’s Final Order. Prior
to the apprhval ef the monitoring physician h}: the committee, Respondent shall submit to the
eemmittee a current curriculum vitae end deseriptien of the current practice frem the proposed
monitoring physician. Said meterieis Shall he received in the Beard efﬁee no later than fourteen
days hefere the Reapendent's ﬁrst scheduled probation appearance. The attached deﬁnition of
a monitoring physician is meetperated herein. The respensihilitjes of a monitoring physician
shall include:

i. Respendent's menitering physician shall appear hefere the prehatiener’s
committee at the ﬁrst meeting of said eenmtittee felihwing commencement of the prehatien, and
at such other times as directed by the ehmmittee. It shall he Respondent's responsibility to
ensure the appearance of his menitering physician as requested er directed. Failure of the
meniteting physician te appear as requested hr directed shall constitute a violatien ef the terms
of this Stipuletien and shall subject the hhysieian to diseipiinary action.

ii. Respondent's monitoring physician shall submit reports on a
semiannual basis, in afﬁdavit form, which shall include:

a. Brief statement of why prehetiener is on probation.
h. Deseriptien hf prehatihner's praeljce.

e. Brief statement 01" prehatiener‘s compliance with terms of

prehatien.

cl. Brief description of prehatiener‘s relationship with monitoring

physician.

e. Detail any problems which ma},r have arisen with prohatiener.

Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that the menitering physician submits the required

reports.

hi. Be avaiiahle fer eensuitatien with Respundent whenever necessary,
at a frequency of at least enee per week.

iv. Review 25% percent of Respondent's patient records and patient
billings (if Respondent is involved in billing patients) on a rahdem basis at least enee ever}r
menlh, fur the purpose of ascertaining the appropriateness of testing that is erdered and the
billing for said testing. In order te comply with this TESpDnSibiiiijl-r of tandem review, the
monitoring physician shall 3:: to Respondent‘s ofﬁce once every month. At that time, the
menitm-ing physician shall be responsible fer making the random selection of the records to be
reviewed by the monitoring physician.

it. Report to the Board any siulat'tens h}; the prehationer of Chapters 455
and 453, Fleiida Statutes, and the rules promulgated pursuant therete.

vi. Maintain eentact 1with Respondent en a frequency of at least once per
menlh. In the event that the monitor is not eentaeted hy Respondent en a frequet‘ttﬂ,I of at least
enee per month, then the monitoring physician shah immediater report this fact to the Board,
in writing.

g. The Board shall confer authet‘itj,r cm the Chairman of the Board’s
Prohatiener‘s Committee tra temperarily appreve Respondent’s monitoring physician. In erder
tn ehtain this temporary apprevai, Resphndent shall submit to the Chairman of the Prehatiener‘s
Committee the name and euniculum vitae ef the propesed monitoring physician. This

information shall be furnished to the Chairman of the Prehatiener‘s Committee at the time that

this Stipuiatien is approved hy the Board. Said approval shall only remain in effect until the

next meeting of the Prehat'tener‘s Committee. If the proposed monitoring physician is net

approved, Respondent shall immediater cease practice. Absent said gnnmval, Resgnndent

shall I: ' medi ine until a meniturin _ 'sieian i3

     

Prehatigngr’s Cnmmittee.

h. In view of the need for engeing and eentjnueus meniteﬁng, Respondent may
else submit the curriculum vitae of an alternate menitering physician who shall be approved by
the Board‘s Prehatienefs Committee. Such physician shall be licensed pursuant to Chapter
453, FIen’de Statutes; and shall have the same duties and responsibilities as speciﬁed for
Respondent‘s mhnjtering physician, during these periods of time when Resphndent‘e manithring
physician is. te111pel111'ilg,r unable to previde supervision. Prior to practicing under the indirect
supervision ef the alternate monitoring physician. Respondent shall set advise the Board in
writing. Respendent shall further advise the Beard in wn'ting ef the period ef time during
which Respondent shall practice under the indirect supervision of the alternate monitoring
physician. Respendeht shalt not practice untess he is under the supewisihn of either the
approved monitoring physician hr the approved alternate

i. In the event that the Respondent’s monitoring, physician is unable DI unwilling
to fulﬁll his responsibilities as El. menitoring physician, as prescribed aheve, then the Respondent
shall immediately advise the Beard of this feet. Resphnetent shalt further submit to the
Chairman fer the Beerd's Prehetiener‘s Cemmittee the name of a temporary menitering
physician fer approval. Respondent shall net practice pending approval of this temporary
monitoring physician h}; the Chairman at" the Prehetiener‘s Committee. Furthemtere,
Reapendent shalt make arrangements with his temperary menitering physician to appear het'ere
the Prehatiener"s Cemmittee at its next regularly scheduled meeting, for approval 0f the
moniten‘ng physician h}: the Committee. Reapendent shall only preettee under the auspices of

the tempera}? meniteting physician (approved by the Chairman} until the next regularlyr

seheduted meeting of the Prehationer‘s Committee whereat the issue ef the Committee's
approval of the Respondent's new monitoring physician shat] he addressed.

j. Respondent shall submit semi—ahnuai reperts, in afﬁdavit farm the contents
ht" which shall he speciﬁed by the Board. The reperts shall include:

i. Brief statement of why physician is en prehatihn.

ii. Description at practice lecatien.

iji. Deseriptien of current practice (type and composition}.
iv. Brief statement of eempiiahce with pmljuatihrtau'jl.F terms.
it. Description et‘ relationship with monitoring physician.
Vi. Advise Board of hit},t problems.

It. Respondent understands that during the eeurse ef the probation, semiannual
reports shall he prepared by investigators with the Department detailing Resphndeht's
eemplianee with the terms and eenditions hi" this prehatien. Respentient waives conﬁdentiality
of these reperts as Le the Department (mi): so that the Beard me}r review these reports.

I. Respondent shall eempiy with all of the terms and eenctitiens ef the
Stipulatjen.

m. During the next ﬂiree years, Respondent shall perform T5 heurs hf eigrrrtmunit},r
service at a rate of 25 hours per year. Cemmunity service shall consist of the delivery of
medical services tiii'eetij,r to patients, withhut fee 01' east to the patient. for the good of the
people of the State ef Florida. Such community service shall he petfermed eutside the
physician’s ofﬁce. Respondent shall Suhmit a written plan for performance and eempletion ef
the community service to the thatiener’s Committee for approval prior to permanence of said
community service. Afﬁdavits detailing the eempletien hf community service requirements shall

be ﬁled with the heard annually.

