F I L E 0""

DeParhnentofProks$onaiResumHon
AGENCY CLERK

(
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL RE wﬁ) ,-
BOARD OF MEDICINE ‘ ‘- V

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL CLERK ..__________._.__

REGULATION, DATE ér/Z.‘ ‘2 -' 22—-

1

Petitioner,
DPR CASE NUMBER: 010925;:
—vs- DOAH CASE NUMBER: 90—5614x
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 004$552 /

\ " 2:
d \ \
Re nt. :1
spon e / EJ‘J/
'\

[

ARNOLD J. MOSS, M.D.,

FINAL ORDER

This cause came before the Board of Medicine (Board)‘
pursuant to Section 120.57(l)(b)10, Florida Statutes, on June 6,
1992, in Tampa, Florida, for the purpose of considering the
Hearing Officer‘s Recommended Order (a copy of which is aﬁtached
hereto as Exhibit A) in the above—styled cause. Petitioner,

Department of Professional Regulation, was represented bleichard

Grumberg, Attorney at Law. Respondent was present and I

represented by Louis Kwall, Attorney at Law.

Upon review of the Recommended Order, the argument of the
parties, and after a review of the complete record in this case,
the Board makes the following findings and conclusions.

FINDINGS OF FACT

1. Findings of fact set forth in the Recommended Order are
approved and adopted and incorporated herein.

2. There is competent substantial evidence to suppoyt the

findings of fact. ‘

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. The Board has jurisdiction of this matter pursuaﬁt to
Section 120.57(l), Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Flo#ida
Statutes.

2. The conclusions of law set forth in the Recommenﬁed
Order are approved and adopted and incorporated herein. }

3. There is competent substantial evidence to suppott the
conclusions of law.

PENALTY

Upon a complete review of the record in this case, the Board
determines that the penalty recommended by the Hearing Officer be
ACCEPTED and ADOPTED. WHEREFORE,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that I

l. Respondent's license to practice medicine is
REPRIHANDED.

2. Respondent shall pay an administrative fine in the
amount of $1000 to the Board of Medicine, Department of
Professional Regulation, within 30 days of the date this Final
Order is filed. ‘ }

3. Respondent shall attend 5 hours of Category I CoItinuing

Medical Education courses per year in the area of record eeping.

Respondent shall submit a written plan to the Chairman ofithe
Probation Committee for approval prior to completion of said

courses. The Board confers authority on the Chairman of 4he

1
Probation Committee to approve or disapprove said continuing

education courses. In addition, Respondent shall submit I

documentation of these continuing medical education courses in

relied on the consultation. Dr. Sunkavalli was not called to
corroborate or refute Respondent's testimony on this score.
18. Jack Kareff, H.D., was accepted as an expertiin
emergency room medicine. He opined that, under similar I
circumstances, and particularly with an elderly diabetic patient,
the minimal acceptable level of care, skiil, and treatment of a

reasonably prudent similar physician would have been to examine

 

Patieﬁt {1's abdomen; perform a rectal examination, and perform a
dipstick of urine for both glucose (sugar) and acetone. Dr.
Kareff also expressed the opinion that the rectal examination
should have been made to eliminate the chance of fecal impiction
35g that such rectal examination should have included treating a
sample of fecal matter found in the rectal vault with a paﬁer
reagent to determine if there were occult blood in the patient’s
stool so as to rule out gastro—intestinal bleeding. Dr. Kareff
testified that there is sufficient fecal matter for such altest
in the rectal vault 99% of the time. He conceded that an enema
might not be warranted and could be potentially traumatic,§given
such a patient’s condition. Dr. Kareff indicated that thegurine
dipstick test should be done to ensure that the patient was not
headed for diabetic ketoacidosis. The urine dipstick test
proposed as a minimal requirement by Dr. Kareff was also
described by him as actually "problematic" in that he admitted
that such a dipstick test can "fool you" occasionally beca+se not
enough aceto acetate is formed to tell the patient's true I

condition. According to Dr. Kareff, ketoacidosis may take:

anywhere from 2 hours to several weeks to develop in a

OODOK‘S

diabetic. On the foregoing information, the efficacy of a
dipstick test was not established.

19. Because he believed that Respondent had not done
the abdominal examination, rectal examination with stool teéting,

I

and urine dipstick test, Dr. Kareff further opined that j
Respondent had fallen below the acceptable level of care, sgill
and treatment as recognized by a reasonably prudent similar;
physician under similar conditions and circumstances.

20. In forming his foregoing opinions, Dr. Karefﬁ had
not had the benefit of hearing Respondent’s unrefuted testiﬁony
that Respondent had, in fact, performed a rectal examinatioa,
determined that there was no fecal impaction, and found thel
patient’s rectal vault empty. Accordingly, the record is devoid

of Dr. Kareff's opinion, if any, as to what should have or gould

have been done as regards a fecal test when the patient’s rectal

J

vault is "empty." 9

21. Dr. Kareff’s opinions assumed and relied on éome
material contrary to the facts established in this ‘
proceeding. Dr. Kareff’s opinion also relied upon much
uncorroborated hearsay evidence, such as the agency's
investigative report. These reliances and assumptions on Dﬁ.
Kareff's part detract from the weight and credibility of his
opinion on minimal professional treatment, and therefore that
opinion is not persuasive.

22. The parties have stipulated that Respondent's
medical records were inadequate. This stipulation and Dr.

Kareff's opinion that Respondent failed to keep written medical

 

records justifying the course of treatment are accepted.

8

0000b

1.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

The Division of Administrative Hearings has

jurisdiction of the parties and subject matter of this cause.

See, Section 120.57(1) F.S.

2.

 

Sections 458.331(1)(t) and (m) provide, in

pertinent part, as follows:

3'

Grounds for disciplinary action; action
by the board or department.—— -

(1) The following acts shall constitute
grounds for which the disciplinary
actions specified in subsection (2) may
be taken:

I i i

(m) Failing to keep written medical
records justifying the course of
treatment of the patient, including, but
not limited to, patient histories;
examination results; test results;
records of drugs prescribed, dispensed,
or administered; and reports of
consultations and hospitalizations.

'I’ I i

(t) . . . the failure to practice
medicine with that level of care,
skill, and treatment which is recognized
by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under
similar conditions and circumstances.

There is clear and convincing evidence to su

conclusion of law that Respondent's medical records were w

 

i

inadequate. He has admitted/stipulated as much, and expert
I

testimony confirms this admission/stipulation.

Turlington,

510 SO.2d 292 (Fla. 1987).

000017

port a

efully

See, Ferri' v.

4. However, this record is insufficient to establish a
violation of the standard of care upon the same "clear and
convincing evidence" test. Clear and convincing evidence
requires that the evidence must be found to be credible; thej
facts to which the witnesses testify must be precise and
explicit, and the witnesses must be lacking in confusion as 40

the facts in issue. The evidence must be of such weight that it

produces in the mind of the trier of fact a firm belief or 1

{
conviction, without hesitancy, as to the truth of the allegations

sought to be established. See, Smith v. Degartment of Health egg
Rehabilitative Services, 522 So.2d 956 (Fla. lst DCA 1988);
Slomowitz v. Walker, 429 80.2d 797, 800 (Fla. 4th DCA 1983).!
While it may be suspicious that Respondent never, even on hi;
second try with the October 27, 1988 addendum, recorded thatihe
had performed a rectal examination of the patient and that there
was no fecal impaction, there remains his unrefuted sworn
testimony that he did the examination and the vault was "emptyu"
Petitioner’s expert did not address whether Respondent could have
or should have proceeded to obtain fecal matter for reagent
testing despite determining the patient’s rectal vault was
"empty" of fecal matter, and he did not fully explicate the
benefit, if any, of doing a urine dipstick test. The
Petitioner’s expert’s ultimate opinion with regard to
Respondent’s treatment was also flawed by considering facts £92
in evidence and material contrary to the facts ig evidence.

5. Therefore, in assessing a penalty, only

Respondent’s records violation may be considered. Medical

10

000018.

records errors and omissions are more than "sloppy bookkeening'
or "typographical errors". They are essential to adequate
treatment and care of patients. This Respondent went so far as
to add an addendum, but his amplification of the original gecords
by addendum was still inadequate. Therefore, having consi¢ered
the respective proposals of the parties and the applicablegrules,
it appears that a reprimand, fine, and some continuing medical
records education is appropriate.
RECOMMENDATION

Upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusiens of
law, it is RECOMMENDED that the Board of Medicine enter a final
order: ‘

(1) Finding that Respondent is not guilty of viélating

Section 458.33(1)(t), F.S. and dismissing Count I of the

 

Administrative Complaint; ,

(2) Finding that Respondent is guilty under Count II

of the Administrative Complaint of violating Section

 

458.331(1)(m), F.S., failure to keep written medical resords
justifyiné the course of treatment of the patient, including but
not limited to, patient histories, examination results, ané test
results; and
(3) Reprimanding Respondent for the single violation,
fining him $1000.00, and requiring him to complete one basic
level continuing medical education course in record keepiné

responsibilities and techniques within one year of the entry of

the final order.

 

DONE and ENTERED thiscﬁgéééqday or April, 1992‘ at
Tallahassee, Florida.

      

ELLA ARE P. DAVIS, Hear Off Ger
Division of Administrative Hearings
The DeSoto Building '
1230 Apalachee Parkway

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—1550
(904) 483-9675 ‘
Filed with the Clerk of the Dividio
of Administrative Hearings thiscgﬂﬂ
day of April, 1992. [
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO SUBMIT EXCEPTIONS: All parties have the ﬁight
to submit written exceptions to this Recommended Order. = All
agencies allow each party at least 10 days in which to sdbmit
written exceptions. Some agenCies allow a larger period within
which to submit written exceptions. You should consult wit the
a enc that will issue the final order in this case conce‘niﬁ_
a enc rules on the deadline for fllin exce tions to this
Recommended. Order. Any exceptions to this Recommended érdEE
should be filed Wlth the agency that will issue the final drder
in this case. '

Copies furnished to:

Louis Kwall, Esquire

Gross and Kwall, P.A.

133 North Ft. Harrison Avenue
Clearwater, Florida 34615

Susan E. Lindgard, Esquire
Department of Professional

Regulation ‘
1940 North Monroe Street
Suite 60
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792

Dorothy Faircloth

Executive Director

Department of Professional
Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street

Suite 60

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792

12

000021]

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner, .
DPR CASE NO.: 0109252 ‘
v30 '

ARNOLD MOSS, M.D. l

Respondent.

/
W

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner", and f4les

this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine*
against Arnold Moss, M.D., hereinafter referred to as i
"Respondent", and alleges:

1. Petitioner, is the state agency charged with
regulating the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20L3D,
Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458,
Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is, and has been at all times materi 1
hereto, a licensed physician in the State of Florida, havihg been
issued license number ME 0045552. Respondent's last knowh
address is 485 Riverside Drive, Tarpon Springs, Florida 34 89—
2511. f

3. On or about October 24, 1988, Respondent rendered

emergency care and treatment to Patient #1 in the Physiciahs

Referral Center (PRC) emergency room of Marion Community

Hospital.

4. Patient #1 presented at the emergency room about;1:50
a.m. complaining of gas, no bowel movements (B.H.) for three (3)

\
days, feeling weak, and a blood sugar of 412 as of 5 p.m. the

evening before the emergency room visit.
5. Nurse Ables Hall attended Patient #1 in the emerbency
\ I

room, and noted in the patient medical records, at the bottFm of

the nurses notes, that the patient had heart problems, diabgtes,

hypertension, kidney problems and was taking medications.

6. The aforementioned medications were listed on ad
additional sheet of the patient medical records. These inchuded
Isordil, Trental, Ascriptin, Lasix, Lanoxin, Dipyridamole,
Capoten, Riopan Plus, Mylicon 80, Pilocarpine eye drops, tyﬁenol

‘
and Humulin N—lOO, 30 units in the morning and 6 units in the
evening.

7. Other nurses notes in the patient medical recordg
state that “the patient complains of gas and unable to move
bowels for three days. Was told to take Fleets and if no results
to go to PRC for soap suds enema. Also states feels weak.
Patient states blood sugar at 5 p.m. was 412."

8. Respondent saw the patient at 2:10 a.m; His ﬁote at
that time read, "chief complaint equals accumulation of gas and
wants a soap suds enema. Spoke to Dr. Sunkavalli earlier this
evening and he referred her here."

9. The Respondent was sleeping when the patient arrived.

Nurse Hall found the Respondent very hard to wake up and he was

angry because the patient came for an enema.

 

CD
CD
C)
C)
C‘)
(3'3

10. Nurse Hall specifically pointed out the patient's
blood sugar to the Respondent.

11. Laboratory examination was indicated on Patien4 l, a
complex case, with multiple problems and on multiple medications.

12. No physical examination is documented on this ehart,
no laboratory tests or x—rays were ordered although minimal
laboratory examination should have included, at least,
electrolytes, (blood, urea nitrogen), (BUN) glucose and a i
dipstick of the patient's urine for Ketones. !

l3. Respondent noted on the chart, at 2:25 a.m., that Dr.
Sunkavalli would follow the patient as an outpatient. !
Respondent's diagnosis was "Gas Retention Fixation". E

14. Patient #1 was discharged home at 3:00 a.m. with only
an instruction to follow up with Dr. Sunkavalli. :

15. At 9:20 a.m. that same morning, Patient #1 arrived at

Citrus Memorial Hospital Emergency Department via Citrus Céunty
I

Emergency Medical Services.

16. The patient was complaining of weakness, abdominal
pain and cramps and reported having tarry stools at home.
Laboratory results indicated marked diabetic acidosis with a
blood sugar of 768, grossly abnormal electrolytes, a hemogiobin
of 6.5 and a hematecrit of 20.8. Her diagnosis, upon admission,
was Diabetic Acidosis and Gastrointestinal Bleeding.

17. Upon admission to the critical care unit at

approximately 10:35 a.m., the patient suffered a brief episode of

apnea and bradycardia from which she responded spontaneously.

C3
C)
C)
CD
‘1
(In

-2

18. At 11:40 a.m. the patient went into asystole but
Responded to resuscitation: however, at 12:10 p.m. she aga%n went

into asystole and did not respond to resuscitation effortsiand

I

expired at 12:42 p.m.
I
I

CQHHI_QHE

|
19. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one

(1) through eighteen (18) as if fully set forth herein.

20. Respondent failed to meet the applicable standérd of
care in his examination, diagnosis and treatment of patient #1
when he failed to do any diagnostic tests, including but not
limited to a rectal exam or even the most minimal of laboratory
or x—ray evaluation. His diagnosis and treatment were
inadequate.

21. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, in that he failed to
practice medicine with that level of care, skill, and treatment
which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physician as
being acceptable under similar conditions and Circumstancee.

CQUHI_IEQ

22. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through eighteen (18) and twenty (20) as if fully set ﬁorth
herein.

23. Respondent did not document an adequate history or

physical exam to justify the course of treatment for Patient #1.

 

24. Based on the foregoing, Respondent has violated
Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, by failing to keeﬁ

written medical records justifying the course of treatment of the

088007

his quarterly reports. These hours shall be in addition to those
hours required for renewal of licensure. Unless otherwise
approved by the Board or the Chairman of the Probation Coﬁmittee,
said continuing education courses shall consist of a formal live
lecture format.

This order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk oﬁ the

Department of Professional Regulation.

4r
DONE AND ORDERED this [5 day of (jihtt,,, 1992.

BOARD OF MEDICINE ?

W/
ZACHARI P. ZACHARIAH; M.D.
CHAIRMAN l

 

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO JUDICIAL REVIEW

A PARTY WHO IS ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THIS FINAL ORDER IS ﬁNTITLED
TO JUDICIAL REVIEW PURSUANT TO SECTION 120.68, FLORIDA STATUTES.
REVIEW PROCEEDINGS ARE GOVERNED BY THE FLORIDA RULES OF AEPELLATE
PROCEDURE. SUCH PROCEEDINGS ARE COMMENCED BY FILING ONE QOPY OF
A NOTICE OF APPEAL WITH THE AGENCY CLERK OF THE DEPARTMENE OF
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION AND A SECOND COPY, ACCOMPANIED BY!F1LING
FEES PRESCRIBED BY LAW, WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEALA FIRST
DISTRICT, OR WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL IN THE APPELLATE
DISTRICT WHERE THE PARTY RESIDES. THE NOTICE OF APPEAL MUST BE

FILED WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF RENDITION OF THE ORDER'TQ BE
REVIEWED. '

 

patient, including but not limited to, patient histories,

examination results, and test results.
. J
WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the hoard
J

of Medicine enter an ORDER imposing one or more of the follewing
i

penalties: Revocation or suspension of the Respondent's liéense,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an I
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Beard

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this ﬁday of é zgﬂgg , 1990.

Larry Gonzalez
Secretary

aw

Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT: ‘

Larry G. McPherson, Jr. F I L E E) I

Senior Attorney . Denanment of Profess'onai Reeluiation
Department of Profess;onal AGENCYCLERK '

Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, FL 32399-0750 5 g
(904) 488—0062 La”

 

Florida Bar #788643 ijK .__
LGM/gs
4/12/90 DATE , - 0 __

 

 

C3
C2)
C3
L)
C .I
Q)

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of theg
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Aerld J.
Moss, M.D., 485 Riverside Drive, Tarpon Springs, Florida 34689—
2511 and Louis Kwall, Attorney at Law, Gross and Kwall, PJA., 133
North Ft. Harrison Avenue, Clearwater, Florida 34615, by d.s.
Mail to Ella Jane P. Davis, Hearing Officer, Division of .
Administrative Hearings, The DeSoto Building, 1230 Apalacﬁee
Parkway, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—1550; and by interoféice
delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney,
Department of Professional Regulation, 1940 North Monroe Street,
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792 at or before 5:00 P.M., ﬁhis

day of , 1992

JuneOrders/Moss

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADHINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATIONS, BOARD OF HEDICAL

EXAMINERS,

Petitioner,

vs.

ARNOLD J. MOSS, H.D.,

Respondent.

CASE NO. 90-5014

 

RECOHHENDED ORDER

Upon due notice, this cause came on for formal hearing

on January 8, 1992 in Ocala, Florida, before Ella Jane P.5Davis,

I I I ' ‘ t I I Q
a duly assigned Hearing Officer of the DiViSion of Adminiftrative

Hearings.

W 1

FOR PETITIONER:

FOR RESPONDENT:

Susan E. Lindgard, Esquire I
Department of Professional 1
Regulation

1940 N. Monroe Street_ 3
Tallahassee, Florida 32399+0750
Louis Kwall, Esquire

Gross and Kwall, P.A.

133 North Ft. Harrison Avenpe
Clearwater, Florida 34615

STATEMENT OF THE ISSUE

The administrative complaint charged Respondent in

Count I with violating Section 458.331(1)(t), F.S., failuie to

practice medicine with that level of care, skill, and treﬁtment

which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physi

Eian as

I

being acceptable under similar conditions and circumstanch, and

k0

00008

in Count II with violating Section 458.331(1)(m), F.S., failure

 

to keep written medical records justifying the course of

treatment of the patient, including but not limited to, patient

histories, examination results, and test results. ;
Pmn-HNARY S'I‘ATEKENT ,

Petitioner presented the oral testimony of Arthur !
Osberg, H.D., Alicia Ables, R.N., and Jack Kareff, H.D., who was
accepted as an expert in emergency room medicine. Petitionef had
six exhibits marked. P—2 was not offered in evidence. P—6 Was
not admitted in evidence. The remainder of Petitioner’s exhibits
were admitted in evidence.

Respondent testified on his own behalf and offered
three exhibits. Respondent’s exhibits, except for R—3, were;
admitted in evidence.

A transcript was filed in due course. Filing of i
proposed recommended orders was delayed due to Respondent’s
intervening “Renewed Motion to Strike and Motion for Extensipn of
Time to File Recommended Findings of Fact", the motion to stiike
of which was denied. All timely—filed proposed findings offfacts

have been ruled upon in the appendix to this recommended Order,

pursuant to Section 120.59(2), F.S.

 

FINDINGS OF FACT

1. At all times material, Respondent was a licenSed

medical physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME004552.
2. On October 24, 1988, Patient #1, a 67 year old

female, presented by wheelchair at the Physicians Referral ¢enter

 

C)
CL")
C)
CD
CD

(PRC) emergency room of the Marion Community Hospital in Ocala,
Florida. Respondent was on duty there at that time.

3. Patient {1, arrived at the emergency room at;
approximately 1:50 a.m. complaining of gas, no bowel movements
for three days, feeling weak, and a highly elevated blood sugar
of 412 as of 5:00 p.m. the evening before. Patient #1 was;
accompanied by her husband, who provided some of the foregbing
information.

4. Alicia Ables, R.N., attended Patient {1 whengshe
arrived, took her vital signs which appeared to be within hormal
limits, and noted in the patient medical records, at the b%ttom
of the nurse's notes, that the patient had heart problemsﬂ
diabetes, kidney problems, and was taking medications. Th; nurse
attached to the patient's medical records a list of the p¥tient’s
current medications which had been provided by the husband.

These medications included Isordil, Trental, Ascriptin, Lasix,
Lanoxin, Depyridamole, Capoten, Riopan Plus, Hylicon 800,‘
Pilocarpine eye drops, Tylenol and Humulin N—loo, 30 units in the
morning and 6 units in the evening. Humulin N—1oo is a low level
prescription for insulin diabetic maintenance. Mylicon'is an
anti-gas preparation.

5. The foregoing history was on the patient chart when
Respondent saw the patient a few minutes later.

6. Respondent saw the patient at approximately 2:10

a.m. At that time, only the patient, her husband, and Respondent

were present in the examining room. No nurse was present in the

 

examining room with them, but Ms. Ables testified that the

3 0000\1

absence of a nurse during a rectal examination of a female
patient Occurred occasionally if not regularly at PRC. Nurse
Ables was not present in the examination room at the time of the
examination and is without knowledge of the extent of I

Respondent's examination of Patient #1. I
7. The patient, who is now deceased, did not testify.
The patient's husband did not testify; The only person who Was
present in the examining room on October 24, 1988 who gig testify
was Respondent, and his testimony is unrefuted that he perfotmed
a routine examination of the patient's chest, abdomen, and skin,

I
that he also performed a rectal examination during which he found

the patient’s rectal vault "empty," and that he concluded that
there was no fecal impaction but some retention of gas. He
concluded that a soap suds enema was not warranted, given the
patient’s condition. He stated that despite believing that the
patient had some retention of gas, he considered her to be I
"fixated" in her mind on the gas problem. 3

8. When the Respondent examined the patient on OcLober

24, 1988, he contemporaneously noted on her chart that her chief
i

complaint was accumulation of gas, that she wanted a soap suds
enema, and that she had spoken earlier with Dr. Sunkavalli, who
had referred her to the emergency room. Dr. Sunkavalli was the

patient's primary treating physician.

 

9. Respondent also noted on the chart at 2:25 a.m. on

October 24, 1988 that Dr. Sunkavalli would follow the patient as

J

an outpatient. He also wrote down that he diagnosed her as

i
having "gas retention fixation." He ordered Mylicon 80 to As
I

0800\2

administered to her. She was not given a soap suds enema, was not
admitted to the hospital, and was not transferred to another
hospital. Respondent did not order any laboratory tests 0% x-
rays. ‘

10. Administration of the Hylicon 80 was noted 0% the
patient's chart by a nurse other than Ms. Ables at 2:40 a.£.
That nurse also noted on the patient records that Patient {1 was
discharged home at 3:00 a:m., in stable condition.

11. None of the typically observable symptoms Qf
ketoacidosis in the patient were observed or noted by Respbndent
or by Ms. Ables while the patient was at PRC.

12. Patient :1 was admitted to Citrus Memorial Hospital
six and one—half hours after being discharged from Respon%ent's
care. Three hours after her admission to Citrus Memorial, the
patient died. After autopsy, the principal pathologic diagnosis
and cause of death was listed as "marked three vessel
artherosclerosis with large, old myocardial infarction." ?The
gross summary reads, "Death of this 67-year old, white feﬁale was
due to marked three vessel arteriosclerosis secondary to
arteriosclerotic heart disease. A contributing factor was
diabetic acidosis." There was also evidence of a gastro—
intestinal bleed.

13. When Patient fl's death became an issue the next
day, Respondent was unable to recall the patient or his
examination and treatment of her. The Respondent revieweT the
emergency room records and spoke with Ms. Ables in order to

recall the care he had rendered to the patient.

a
0800\3 i

14. Respondent prepared an addendum to the patient’a
medical records three days after he actually examined Patieqt I1.
Only at that late date, October 27, 1988, did Respondent doéument
a history, document that he had made a physical examination4 and
document that he had had a telephone consultation with Dr. I
Sunkavalli on October 24, 1988 while the patient was in the;
emergency room, and further document that he and Dr. Sunkavalli
had concurred at that time in treating the patient with Hylicon.

15. Adding the addendum was deemed appropriate uAder
the circumstances by Marion Community Hospital personnel, aid
Petitioner’s expert did not specifically find that adding it was
inappropriate or improper.

16. Respondent had not documented the telephone
consultation with Dr. Sunkavalli or a history or physical I
examination of Patient {1 at the time he examined her on October
24, 1988. Neither on the date of examination/treatment noriin
his later addendum did Respondent ever document that he had
performed a rectal examination on Patient #1.

17. In his testimony at formal hearing, Respondent
explained and supplemented his October 27, 1988 addendum notation
of a telephone conversation with Dr. Sunkavalli on October 24,
1988 to add that Dr. Sunkavalli was aware at that time of Patient
{1’s elevated blood sugar reading the previous evening but,
hearing Respondent's examination results, Dr. Sunkavalli had
recommended no further tests and had said nothing to disagree

with Respondent's assessment and treatment of the patient and

that while Respondent had not deferred to Dr. Sunkavalli, he had

 

00001.54

