' Professian Caﬁe
   ~ w ._ {So / ,
Case Number _ I I
Q00 / 0 9w 5‘
Daeﬁm—em Type I

Clerk Discipline Filing

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE
Final Order No. AHCA-95-01800 Date /é '2&@

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE FEED
ADMINI STRATION I BOARD OF Agency for Health Care Administration
MEDICINE AGENCY CLERK

’ .S. Fower, A ency Clerk

. . By: .

Pet 1t 1 oner I Deputy Agency Clerk
V. CASE NUMBER: 01‘09265
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0013260

OSCAR GONZALEZ, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on December 1, 1995 in
Miami, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreeﬁent (attached
hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the above-
styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent Agreement, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises, the Board
rejected the Consent Agreement proposed and offered an amendment at
the hearing, which amendment was accepted without objection by the
parties.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein with the following amendments:

A. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand from the Board
of Medicine.

B. Paragraph 3. of the stipulated Disposition shall be
amended to reflect that upon the filing of the Final Order in this

1

Board. The Respondent shall appear at the next meeting of the
Board’s Probationers' Committee following entry of a Final Order

with his proposed supervisor or monitor unless otherwise ordered by

the Board. In the event that Respondent has not obtained temporary
approval of his monitor or supervisor by the Chairman of the
Board’s Probationers’ Committee prior to that first meeting of the
Board’s Probationers' Committee. then Respondent may not practice
medicine until he has obtained such aggraval. Temporary approval

is only available if provided for in the Final Order.

C. After the next meeting of the Board's Probationers'
Committee occurs Respondent shall only practice under the
supervision of the supervisor or monitor. If for any reason the
approved supervisor or monitor is unwilling or unable to serve,
Respondent shall immediately notify the Executive Director of the
Board and shall cease practice until a temporary supervisor/monitor
is approved. The chairman of the Board’s Probationers’ Committee
may approve a temporary supervisor or monitor who may serve in that
capacity until the next meeting of the Board’s Probationers’
Committee at which time the Board's Probationers’ Committee shall
accept or reject a new proposed supervisor or monitor. If the new
proposed supervisor/monitor is rejected, Respondent shall cease
practice until a new supervisor or monitor is temporarily approved
by the Chairman of the Board’s Probationers’ Committee.
Furthermore, the monitoring or supervising physician shall appear
at the next meeting of the Board’s Probationers' Committee, and at

such other times as are requested by the Board’s Probationers’

10

 

Committee. Failure to appear by the monitor or supervisor as
directed shall constitute a violation of the Board's Final Order.
D. The supervisor or monitor must be a licensee under

Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, in good standing without restriction
or limitation on his license. In addition, the Board's
Probationers' Committee may reject any proposed supervisor or
monitor on the basis that he has previously been subject to any
disciplinary action against his medical license in this or any
other jurisdiction. The supervisor or monitor must be actively
engaged in the same or similar specialty area unless otherwise
provided. by' the Board’s Probationers' Committee. The Board's
Probationers' Committee may also reject the proposed
supervisor/monitor for good cause shown.

Accordingly, the parties shall adhere to and abide by all of
the terms and conditions of the Consent Agreement, as amended.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of
the Agency.

DONE AND ORDERED this é Z day éédzmﬂ , 1995.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

GARY . WINCHESTER, M.D.

CHAIRMAN

11

 

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail t6 Oscar Gonzalez, M.D.,
600 Grapetree Drive, #5-D N, Key Biscayne, Florida, 33149; Javier
Rodriguez, Esquire, DIAZ & MOREL-SARUSKI, Gables International
Plaza, Suite 805, 2655 LeJeune Road, Coral Gables, Florida 33134;
and by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief
Medical Attorney, Agency for Health Care Administration, Northwood
Centre, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792,
at or before 5:00 P.M., this day of ,

1995.

MARM M. HARRIS, Ed.D.
Executive Director

12

STATE OF ?LORIDB
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION

‘-—-~ﬂ—--~—ﬂ—n~—~m—a~m—-———-—w-e__~_w_~e__~._~____.ﬂ~__~__~__m~_______~

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE
ADMINISTRATION,

Petitioner,
AHCA CASE NO. 01-09265

OSCAR GONZALEZ, M.D.,

Respondent.

CONS AGREEMENT
Oscar Gonzalez, M.D., referred to as the "Respondent,"
and the Agency for Health Care Administration, referred to as
"Agency," stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and to the

entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as

"Board," incorporating the stipulated Facts and stipulated

Disposition in this matter.

BTIEULATED FACTS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed

physician in the State of Florida, having been issued license

number ME 0013260.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint

filed by the Agency and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida statutes, and the rules enacted

pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative

Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of

fact contained in the Administrative Complaint.

W

 

" *1 . Respondent—admits~that—,—-—i-n-—his——capacity4s444censed ’

physician, he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458,
Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Agency and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the attached
Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute violations of

Chapters 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative

Complaint.

STIPULBTED DISPOSITION
1. EUTURB CONDUCZ. Respondent shall not in the future

violate Chapters 455, 458, and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto. Prior to signing this agreement, the
Respondent read Chapters 455, 458, and 893 and the Rules of the
Board of Medicine in Section 59R, Florida Administrative Code.

2. ELQQ. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in
the amount of three thousand ($3,000) dollars against the
Respondent. The fine shall be paid by the Respondent to the Board
of Medicine within N13!!! (90) days of its imposition by Final
Order of the Beard. THE RESPONDENT ACKNOWLEDGBB THAT THE TIHBLY
PAYMENT. OF THE FINE IS 1118 LEGAL OBLIGATION AND RESPONSIBILITY AND
TEE RESPONDENT AGREES TO GRASS PRACTICING IF THE PINS 18 NOT PAID
A8 AGREED TO IN THIS CONSENT AGREEMENT, SPECIFICALLY: IF THE
RESPONDENT HAS NOT RECEIVED WRITTEN CONFIRMATION THAT THE FULL
AMOUNT OF THE FINE HAS BEEN RECEIVED BY THE BOARD OFFICE WITHIN 90
DAYS OF THE FILING OF THIS FINAL ORDER, THE RESPONDENT AGREES TO

CHASE PRACTICE UNTIL SUCH WRITTEN CONFIRMATION IS RECEIVED BY THE

 

RESPONDENT FROM THE BOARD. (88! EXHIBIT 3, PARAGRAPH 1 0? ms
WM“. “CONSENT IGRBEHERT‘FOR‘Bem—ADDRBBB—hND-8TANDARDJERH8L
3. zgggggLQgL Effective on the date of the filing of the

Final Order incorporating the terms of this Agreement, Respondent's

license to practice medicine shall be placed on probation until

such time as he has successfully completed an Anesthesiology Board

Review Course and has been directly supervised by a Board-certified

monitor for five (5) procedures, or one year, whichever comes

first, and upon approval by the Board that the Respondent has
successfully shown that he can practice medicine with skill and

safety based upon certification by the monitor(s).

4. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject
to the approval of the Board and the Agency. In this regard, the
foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs) sha11.have
no force and effect unless a Final Order incorporating the terms of

this Agreement is entered by the Board.

5. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting of
the Board where this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in
conjunction with the consideration of this Agreement by the Board,
shall respond to questions under oath from the Board, Board staff
or Agency staff whereby he demonstrates what actions have been
taken in his medical practice to insure that this type of episode
does not reoccur.

6. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by Respondent may be used as direct

evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding; however, such

 

 

I statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment purposes.

 

...- _‘ - ,_ ~~q , Respondent.and_theMencHuLly—undemtand—thatiihiB—jﬂing

agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will in no
way preclude additional proceedings against Respondent for acts or
omissions not specifically set forth in the Amended Administrative
Complaint attached as Exhibit "A" herein.

8. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps, and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or

contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the

Board incorporating said Agreement.

9. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will hear his own attorney's fees and
costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's fees or costs
from the Department in connection with this matter.

10. This agreement is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the
Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by
the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or

any of its members from further participation, consideration, or

 

resolution of these proceedings.

WW-WW

smman this 024% day of gzagz/S‘f’ , 1995.

 

Before me, personally appeared Osca Gonzalez, M.D.,
whose identity is known to me by ﬂagw’ éég¢gz (type of

identification) and who, under oath, acknowledges that his
signature appears above./,E/./j,77/J/; ,Z/(exyspj

Sworn to and subscribed before me this £5 day of( 2/7425?“ ,

1995.

   
  
  

—-.

OFFICIAL SEAL

LOLY ACUNA
My Commlulon Expires

My Commission Expires:

Approved this G

 

    

rry .
Chief Medical Attorney

 

STANDARD TERMS APPLICABLB TO CONBENT AGREEMENTS

 

_«_____m_____________.__w___________*_______._______~.h______;*_~_____~__*~_~
The following are the standard terms applicable to all consent

agreements, including supervision and monitoring provisions
applicable to licensees on probation.

A. EAYMEEI OE ELEES, Unless otherwise directed by the

consent agreement, all fines shall be paid by check or money order
and sent to the Board address set forth in paragraph E, below. The

Board office does not have the authority to change the terms of

payment of any fine imposed by the Board.
B. O B CO G UC 0 UN S

Unless otherwise directed by the consent agreement, all community
service requirements, continuing education units/courses must be
completed, and documentation of sgch completion submitted to the
Board 6f Medicine at the address set forth below in paragraph E,
WITHIN ONE YEAR OF THE DATB 0? THE FINAL ORDER.

C. ADDRESSES. Respondent must keep current residence
and practice addresses on file with the Board. Respondent shall
notify the Board within ten (10) days of any changes of said
addresses. Furthermore, if the Respondent's license is on
probation, the Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (10)
days in the event that Respondent leaves the active practice of
medicine in Florida.

D. COSTS. Pursuant. to Section‘ 458.331(2), Florida
Statutes, the Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply
with the terms of this Consent Agreement. Such costs include, but
are not limited to, the costs of preparation of Investigative
Reports detailing compliance with the terms of the Consent

Agreement, obtaining supervision or monitoring of the practice, the

v cost of quality assurance reviews, and the Board's administrative

——————————costs.directlyJSeociatedthLﬁpondt-mt’ 3 robation.

E. W Unless otherwise directed by the

Board office, all fines, reports, correspondence and inquiries

shall be sent to: Board of Medicine, 1940 north nonroe street,

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792, Attn: Final Order Compliance
Officer.

I F. PROBATION TERMS. If probation was imposed by the

Final Order of the Board, the following provisions are applicable.

1. E ITIONS:
a. LNDLREQI SQEEVISLOE is supervision by a

monitoring physician (monitor) whose responsibilities are set by
the Board. Indirect supervision dees not require that the monitor
practice on the same premises as" the Respondent, however, the

monitor shall practice within a reasonable geographic proximity to

Respondent, which shall be within 20 miles unless otherwise
provided by the Board and shall be readily available for
consultation . The monitor shall be Board-certified 1n the

Respondent’s specialty area unless otherwise provided by the Board.
b. DLREQI SQEERVISIOE is supervision by a

supervising physician (supervisor) whose responsibilities are set

by the Board. Direct supervision requires that the supervisor and

EXHIBIT B

 

cause, the Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State
of Florida shall be placed on probation for a period of one (1)
year.

1. Respondent shall comply with all state and federal
statutes, rules, and regulations pertaining to the practice of
medicine, including Chapters 455, 458, 893, Florida Statutes, and
Rule Chapter 59R, Florida Administrative Code.

2. Respondent shall appear before the Board's
Probationers’ Committee at the first meeting after said probation
commences, at the last meeting of the Board's Probationers’
Committee preceding termination of probation, semiannually, and at
such other times as requested by the Board's Probationers’
Committee. Respondent shall be noticed by Board staff of the date,
time and place of the meeting whereat Respondent's appearance is
required. Failure of the Respondent to appear as requested or
directed shall be considered a violation of the terms of the Final
Order entered in this matter, and shall subject the Respondent to
disciplinary action.

3. In the event the Respondent leaves the State of
Florida for a period of thirty days or more or otherwise does not
engage in the active practice of medicine in the State of Florida,
then certain provisions of Respondent's probation (and only those
provisions of said probation) shall be tolled as enumerated below
and shall remain in a tolled status until Respondent returns to
active practice in the State of Florida. Respondent must keep

current residence and business addresses on file with the Board.

 

Respondent work in the same office. The supervising physician

aha}; be board-certified in the Respondent’s specialty area unless
otherwise provided by the Board.

c. EBOQAIION comngzg or "committee" are

members of the Board of Medicine designated by the Chairman of the

Board to serve as the Probation Committee.

2. E U ED 8 IS 0 .

a. If the terms of the consent agreement
include indirect monitoring of the licensees’s practice
(MONITORING) or direct monitoring of the licensees practice
(SUPERVISION) , the Respondent shall not practice medicine without
an approved monitor/supervisor, as specified by the Consent

Agreement, unless otherwise ordered by the Board.

b. The monitor/supervisor must be a licensee
under Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, in good standing and without
restriction or limitation on his license. In addition, the Board
or Committee may reject any proposed monitor/supervisor on the
basis that he has previously been subject to any disciplinary
action against his medical license in this or any other
jurisdiction, is currently under investigation, or is the subject
of a pending disciplinary action. The monitor/supervisor must be
actively engaged in the same or similar specialty area unless
otherwise provided by the Board or Committee and be practicing
within a reasonable distance of the Respondent's practice, a
distance of no more than twenty (20) miles unless otherwise
specifically provided for in the consent agreement. The Board or

Committee may also reject any proposed monitor/supervisor for good

cause shown.

 

 

(1)- IEMEQBAB¥__AEEBQXAL- The Board

confers authority on the Chairman of the Board's Probation
Committee to temporarily approve Respondent's monitor/supervisor.
To obtain this temporary approval, Respondent shall submit to the
Chairman of the Probation Committee the name and Curriculum vitae
of the proposed monitor/supervisor at the time this agreement is
considered by the Board. Once a Final Order' adopting this
Agreement is filed, Respondent shall not practice medicine without
an approved monitor/supervisor. Temporary approval shall only
remain in effect until the next.meeting of the Probation.¢ommittee.

(2). EQEMAL_AEEBQXAL. Respondent shall
have the monitor/supervisor with? him at his first probation
appearance before the Probation cemmittee. Prior to consideration
of the monitor/supervisor by the Committee, the Respondent shall
provide to the monitor/supervisor a copy of the Administrative
Complaint and Final Order in this case. Respondent shall submit a
current curriculum vitae and a description of current.practice from
the proposed monitor/supervisor to the Board office no later than
fourteen days befere the ReSpondent's first scheduled probation
appearance. Respondent's monitor/supervisor shall also appear
before the Probation Committee at such other times as directed by
'the Committee. It shall be Respondent’s responsibility to ensure
that the appearance of his monitor/supervisor as directed. Failure
of the monitor/supervisor to appear as directed shall constitute a

violation of the terms of this Stipulation and shall subject the

Respondent to disciplinary action.

 

 

d- W- In the
._ eventwthatugespgndent's monitor/_su ervisor is unable or unwilling

to fulfill his responsibilities as a monitor/supervisor as
described above, then the Respondent shall immediately advise the
Board of this fact. Respondent shall immediately submit to the
Chairman of the Board's Probation Committee the name of a temporary
monitor/supervisor for consideration. Respondent shall not
practice pending approval of this temporary monitor/supervisor by
the Chairman ef the Probation Committee. Furthermore, Respondent
shall make arrangements with his tempofary monitor/supervisor to
appear before the Probation Committee at its next regularly
scheduled meeting for consideration of the monitor/supervisor by
the Committee. Respondent shall only practice under the auspices
of the temporary monitor/supervié'or (approved by the Chairman)
until the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Probation
Committee whereat the issue of the Committee’s approval of the

Respondent’s new monitor/supervisor shall be addressed.

3. CONTINUIE! OE PRAC‘I‘LCE

a. EOLLIEQ EBOVLSIOH . In the event the
Respondent leaves the state of Florida for a period of thirty days

or more or otherwise does not engage in the active practice of
medicine in the State of Florida, then certain provisions of
Respondent’s probation (and only those provisions of the probation)
shall be tolled as enumerated below and shall remain in a tolled

status until Respondent returns to active practice in the State of

Florida:

 

(1). The time period of probation shall
be.tolledLb____~____._____________M_________wﬂ_____________~_‘_________

(2) . The provisions regarding supervision
whether direct or indirect by another physician, and required
reports from the monitor/supervisor shall be tolled.

(3) . The provisions regarding preparation
of investigative reports detailiﬁg compliance with this Stipulation

shall be tolled.
(4) . Any provisions regarding community

service shall be tolled.

b. W. In the event that

Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine for a period of
one year or more, the Probation Committee may require Respondent to
appear before the Probation Committee and demonstrate his ability
to practice medicine with skill .and safety to patients prior to

resuming the practice of medicine in this State.

STATE OF FDORIDA
DIVISIOH OI ADMIﬂIBIIATIVB BBﬁRIﬂOB
BOARD OF HSDIOINI

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS D—““‘““~*-~—~—_~________~*___~___~_“~‘“~;__~;gu*
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,
Petitioner,

VS. DBPR CASE "0.: 0109265

OSCAR R. GONZALEZ, M.D.

$08

 

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner,“ and files this
Amended Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against Oscar Gonzalez, H.D., hereinafter referred to '3:
“Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the
practice of medicine pursuant to Sebtion 20.30, floride statutes;
Chapter 455, Florida Statutes: and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto a
licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number KB 0013260. Respondent’s last known address 13 600
Grapetree Drive, Apt SD North, Miami, Florida 33142;

3. On or about October 21, 1988, Batient #1 a twenty-six year
old female, presented to North Hiami Medical Center for a
tonsillectomy, septoplasty and a chin implant to be performed by
Dr. Jay Gottlieb.

4. Respondent was attending anesthesiologist for the
procedure, and placed Patient #1 under general anesthesia.

5. Dr. Gottlieb removed the first tonsil with no

‘ ‘complications. While removing the second tonsil Dr. Gottlieb found
that Patient ’1': blood had darkened, she had become cyanotic, and
*“Wmmmnamamgﬂﬁ

6. Dr. Gottlieb then discovered that all monitors were on
zero (0), and that the heart: monitor revealed an electric heart
rate of twelve (12) in a bigeminy fashion.

7. Subsequently, Patient #1 was found to have no pulse in the
neckf and to have suffered carcio-respiratory arrest, causing
oxygen deprivation.

8. Dr. Gottlieb initiated external cardiac compressions, and
Respondent turned off all anesthetic gases and administered pure
oxygen.

9. Dr. Gottlieb and Respondent subsequently administered
cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) which revived Patient I1.

10. ' As a result of the incident; Patient {1 suffered a hypoxic
brain injury.

11. Respondent failed to perforu an adequate physical exam,
intra-operatively, which would have enabled him to detect Patient:
[1's hypoxia in a timely manner.

12. Respondent failed to notify Dr. Gottlieb at significant

heart rate changes in the electrocardiogram (EKG) , which could have

revealed the symptoms of cyanosis.

13. Respondent failed to notice Patient {1's cyanosis intra-

operatively, which is a late sign of hypoxia.
14. Respondent failed to take appropriate actions to obtain

a functioning pulse oximeter.

 

5:91:31;
15. Petitioner realleqes and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

 

througmeEeTTHW—is-mﬂyaet-tozth-huem—Q‘W

16. Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonehly prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances in that Respondent tailed to perforn an adequate
physical exam intrav—operatively, failed to notify Dr. Gottlieb of
significant changes in the EKG, failed to notice cyanosia, and
failed to take appropriate actions to obtain a functioning pulse
oximeter.

17. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section

458.331(1) (t) , Florida statutes, gross or repeated ulpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,

and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar

physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and

circumstances .

mu
18. Petitioner reallegee and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through fourteen (14) and sixteen (16), as it fully set forth

herein this Count II.
19. Respondent is guilty of making deceptive, untrue, or

fraudulent representations in or related to the practice of
medicine in that: Patient {1's records contained discrepancies and

contradictions, including, but not limited to, progress notes that

9
I
r
1
9
f
i

I
f

 

 

 

were not present on Friday, October ‘21, 1998 nor Saturday, October
22, 1988 were inserted by Respondent and were back dated in time.
Mia‘smetim-h—the4mthtueenma.

 

on October 22, 1988 and 9:00 a.n., October 24, 1988. In addition,
the 0R anesthesia records had been altered and added to since
Saturday, October 22, 1988. The anesthesia note dated October 21,
1988 "I1 1400 £0110w1ng Dr. Gottlieb's note of October 21, 1988,
12:30. pan. was not there on Frieay, October 21, 01988 or early
Saturday morning, October 22, 1988'. Page four (4) of the progress
notes wasn't there at all and noted on, October 24, 1988 to be
there and numbered by Respondent to be his I2 at 1445 on 'October
21, 1988. Page £1ve (5) ot the progress notes or October 21, 1988
(Anesthesia notes) is now labeled 'IIII' over the #1 dated October
21, 1988. This new {III note was #1 and was written Saturday
morning in the presence at the critical care nurse.

20. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331 (1)(k), Florida Statutes, by making deceptive, untrue, or
fraudulent representation in or related to the practice of medicine
or employing a trick or scheme in the practice of medicine.

WHEREPORE, the Petitioner respectfully request the Board of
medicine enter an Order, imposing one or more at the folloying
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of. an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate .

 

 

sIGNED“tht§‘:ﬂéjé::ﬁday~01 hm .1231L__._~__~_~______

George Stuart, Secretary

  

G. McPherson, J
Chi f Medical Attorney

 

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMEIH‘:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.
Chief Medical Attorney

Departmint <1): Busineis and r 1 L E D
Profess ona Regulat on .
1940 North Monroe Street - thmfmmmm 3W
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750 mam:

Florida Sat {188643

6 “Tan. M H1“
9 f " m SM“ X. "Wu.

'uul Much" + 04m ,3“! 5,12 ,qq

.. . . . ....-..._____M- -_-.-.~-._...STATEV.O£. FLORIDA—__e~_.___..___-
'“” DEPARTMENT—OP‘PROFESSIONAB’REGULATION

 

BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

PETITIONER,
VS. CASE NO. 0109265
OSCAR R. GONZALEZ, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

ADHIHLEIBAILYE_QQHELAIHI
COMES Now the Petitioner, Department of Professional

Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against Oscar
Gonzalez, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent,“ and
alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0013260 . Respondent's last known address is 600
Grapetree Drive, Apt 5D North, Miami, Florida 33149.

3. On or about October 21, 1988, Patient #1, a twenty-six
year old female, presented to North Miami Medical Center for a
tonsillectomy, septoplasty and a chin implant to be performed by

Dr. Jay Gottlieb.

 

Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (10) days of any
changes of said addresses. Furthermore, Respondent shall notify
the Board within ten (10) days in the event that Respondent leaves
the active practice of medicine in Florida.

4. In the event that Respondent Ieaves the active
practice of medicine in this state for a period of thirty days or
more, the following provisions of his probation shall be tolled:

a. The time period of probation shall be tolled.

b. The provisions regarding supervision, whether
direct or indirect by another physician.

0. The provisions regarding preparation. of
investigative reports detailing compliance with this Consent
Agreement.

5. In the event that Respondent leaves the active
practice of medicine for a period of one year or more, the Board’s
Probationers’ Committee may require Respondent to appear before the
Probationers’ Committee and demonstrate his ability to practice
medicine with skill and safety to patients prior to resuming the
practice of medicine in this State.

6. Respondent shall not practice except under the
direct supervision of a physician fully licensed under Chapter 458
who has been approved by the Board or the Board’s Probationers'
Committee. The supervisory physician shall share offices with
Respondent. Absent provision for and compliance with the terms
regarding temporary approval of a supervising physician set forth

in paragraph 7 below, Respondent shall cease practice and not

 

~——-*3"procedurey—and:blaced~Petient~f1—under~general~anestheeia

4. Respondent was the attending anesthesiologist for the

 

5. Dr. Gottlieb removed the first tonsil with no
complications. While removing the second tonsil Dr. Gottlieb found
that Patient {1's blood had darkened, she had become cyanotic, and
her pupils were fixed and dilated.

6. Dr. Gottlieb then discovered that all monitors were on
zero (0), and that the heart monitor revealed an electric heart
rate of twelve (12) in a bigeminy fashion.

7. Subsequently, Patient #1 was found to have no pulse in
the neck, and to have suffered cardio-respiratory arrest, causing

oxygen deprivation.

8. Dr. Gottlieb initiated external cardiac compressions, and
Respondent turned off all anesthetic gases and administered pure
oxygen.

9. Dr. Gottlieb and Respondent subsequently administered
cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) which revived Patient #1.

10. As a result of the incident Patient #1 suffered a hypoxic
brain injury.

11. Respondent failed to perform an adequate physical exam,
intra-operatively, which would have enabled him to detect Patient
{1's hypoxia in a timely manner.

12. Respondent failed to notify Dr. Gottlieb of significant
heart rate changes in the electrocardiogram (EKG), which could have

revealed the symptoms of cyanosis.

 

' oﬁeiative1y7—which~isea"late~sign«o£~hypox1ar——

13. Respondent failed to notice Patient #1’3 cyanosis intra-

 

 

14. Respondent failed to take appropriate actions to obtain
a functioning pulse oximeter.

15. Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar cenditions and
circumstances in that Respondent failed to perform an adequate
physical exam intra-operatively, failed to notify Dr. Gottlieb of
significant changes in the EKG, failed to notice cyanosis, and
failed to take appropriate actions to obtain a functioning pulse

oximeter.

16. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331 (1)(t), Florida Statutes, gross or repeated malpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

 

SIGNED this _-_3____

 

._ ——--~~ A—A —- _, ———— » Georger tarp}:7ecfetary—--——~—-r—~-~- -

   

try G. Pherson, Jr.
Chie Medical Attorney

 

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Chief Medical Attorney

Department of Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750

Florida Bar #788643 ‘ L E D
LGM/JTO

Sﬁiiayfagggﬁgﬂé :33381ade Department of Professiona! Regula’don
DEPUTY CLERK ..
CLERK
DATE 2- _. 3

 

 

 

practice until the Board's Probationers' Committee approves a
supervising’ physician. Respondent shall have ‘the supervising
physician with him at his first probation appearance before the
Board’s Probationers’ Committee. A failure of the Respondent or
his supervising physician to appear at the scheduled probation
meeting shall constitute a violation of the Board’s Final Order.
Prior to approval of the supervising physician by the Board or its
Probationers’ Committee, the Respondent shall provide to the
supervising physician a copy of the Administrative Complaint and
Final Order filed in this case. Prior to the approval of the
supervising physician by the Board’s Probationers’ Committee,
Respondent shall submit to the Board’s Probationers’ Committee a
current curriculum vitae and description of the current practice
from the proposed supervising physician. Said materials shall be
received in the Board office no later than fourteen days before the
Respondent's first scheduled probation appearance. The attached
definition of a supervising physician is incorporated herein. The
responsibilities of a supervising physician shall include:

(a) Submit quarterly reports, in affidavit form,

which shall include:

1. Brief statement of why physician is on
probation.

2. Description of probationer’s practice.

3. Brief statement of probationer's

compliance with terms of probation.

4. Brief description of probationer's

 

relationship with supervising physician.
5. Detail any problems which may have arisen
with probationer.

(b) Report to the Board any violations by the
probationer of Chapter 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto. .

Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that the
supervising physician submits the required reports.

7. The supervisor shall contact any and all alternate
supervising physicians in conjunction with submission of this
report to ensure compliance of the terms of probation.

8. The Board shall confer authority on the Chairman of
the Board’s Probationers' Committee to temporarily approve
Respondent's supervisory physician. In order to obtain this
temporary approval, Respondent shall submit to the Chairman of the
Board’s Probationers’ Committee the name and curriculum vitae of
the proposed supervising physician. This information shall be
furnished to the Chairman of the Board's Probationers' Committee by
way of the Board of Medicine's executive director, within 48 houts
after Respondent receives the Final Order in this matter. This
information may be faxed to the Board of Medicine at (904) 487—9622
or may be sent by overnight mail or hand delivery to the Board of
Medicine at the Agency for Health Care Administration, 1940 North
Monroe Street, Suite 60, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750. In

order to provide time for Respondent's proposed supervisory

physician to be approved or disapproved by the Chairman of the

 

 

Board’s Probationers’ Committee, Respondent shall be allowed to
practice medicine while approval is being sought, but only for a
period of five working days after Respondent receives the Final
Order. If Respondent’s supervising physician has not been approved
during that time frame, then Respondent shall cease practicing
until such time as the supervising physician is temporarily
approved. In the event that the proposed supervising physician is
not approved, then Respondent shall cease practicing immediately.
Should Respondent's supervising physician be approved, said
approval shall only remain in effect until the next meeting of the

Board's Probationers’ Committee. Absent said approval. Respondent

shall not Qractice medicine until a sugervising physician is
approved.

9. In view of the need for ongoing and continuous
monitoring or supervision, Respondent shall also submit the
curriculum vitae and name of an alternate supervising physician to
be approved by the Board or its Probationers' Committee. Such
physician shall be licensed pursuant to Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, and shall have the same duties and responsibilities as
specified for Respondent’s supervising physician during those
periods of time which Respondent's supervising physician is
temporarily unable to provide supervision. Prior to practicing
under the indirect supervision of the alternate monitoring
physician or the direct supervision of the alternate supervising
physician, Respondent shall so advise the Board’s Probationers’

Committee in writing. Respondent shall further advise the Board’s

 

 

Probationers' Committee in writing of the period of time during
which Respondent shall practice under the supervision of the
alternate supervising physician. Respondent shall not practice
unless he is under the supervision of either the approved
supervising physician or the approved alternate.

10. Respondent shall submit quarterly reports in
affidavit form, the contents of which shall be specified by the
Board. The reports shall include:

(a) Brief statement of why physician is on

probation.

(b) Practice location.

(c) Describe current practice (type and
composition).

(d) Brief statement of compliance with probationary
terms.

(e) Describe relationship with supervising
physician.

(f) Advise Board of any problems.

11. Respondent understands that during this period of
probation, semi-annual investigative reports will be compiled with
the Agency concerning his compliance with the terms and conditions
of probation and the rules and statutes regulating the practice of
medicine.

12. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply
with the terms of the Final Order issued based on this proceeding.

Such costs include, but are not limited to, the costs of

 

preparation of the investigative reports detailing compliance with
the terms of the Final Order entered in this case, the cost of
analysis of any blood or urine specimens submitted pursuant to the
Final .Order entered as a result of this proceeding, and
administrative costs directly associated with Respondent's
probation. See Section 458.331(2), Florida Statutes.

C. After the Respondent has successfully completed six
months of probation under direct supervision, he may petition the
Probationers’ Committee of the Board for early termination of
probation. The Probationers’ Committee shall evaluate the
Respondent’s performance during the first six (6) months of
probation any may elect to terminate Respondent's probation up to

six (6) months early.

 

PROVISIONS GOVERNING PHYSICIANS PRACTICING UNDER
SUPERVISION OF ANOTHER PHYSICIAN
I. DEFINITIONS:

A. INDIRECT SUPERVISION is supervision by a monitoring
physician whose responsibilities are set by the Board. Indirect
supervision does not require that the monitor practice on the same
premises as the Respondent. However, the monitor shall practice
within a reasonable geographic proximity to Respondent, which shall
be within 20 miles unless otherwise provided by the Board's
Probationers’ Committee, and shall be readily available for
consultation. The monitor shall be board-certified in the same
specialty area in which Respondent practices, unless otherwise
ordered by the Board’s Probationers’ Committee.

B. DIRECT SUPERVISION is supervision by a supervising
physician. Direct supervision requires that the supervisor and
Respondent work on the same premises. Specific responsibilities
are set by the Board. The supervisor shall be board-certified in
the same specialty area in which Respondent practices, unless
otherwise ordered by the Probationers' Committee.

II. Provisions governing all supervised or monitored
physicians:

A. The supervisor/monitor shall be furnished with copies
of the Administrative Complaint, Final Order, Stipulation (if
applicable), and other relevant orders.

B. The Respondent shall not practice without a

monitoring or supervising physician unless otherwise ordered by the

