!— ,

f '
\ -ﬁv ,,
L'OHWI'IJHM H

#273: ‘.' “1 F: .‘K

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATIONC/
BOARD OF MEDICINE Cy

/ 1
3/ M (2:12?

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL / “—_"
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

-Vs_ DPR CASE NUMBER: 0110683

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0048837
RICHARD M. LAUBAUGH, M.D.,

Respondent.

__._i___________i______j
mm

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine {Board}
pursuant to Section L20.57(3), Florida Statutes, on June 1, 1990,
in Tampa, Florida, Ior consideration of a Stipulation (attacheﬂ
hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the
above-styled case. Upon consideration of the Stipulaticn, the
documenta submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being ctherwise advised in the premises, The Hoard
rejected the Stipulation proposed and offered an amendm2n; :{ 1L9
hearing, which amendment was accepted without objecthul by LhH
parties. '

IT IS HEREBY OFDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulation as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein with the following chahves:

1. By agreement of the parties and the Board, the second
sentence of Paragraph 5 of the Stipulated Disposition, providimg
an exception to the limitation of performance mf invasive

procedures to those normally associated with orthopedic surgu1y,

is stricken.

2. Paragraph 2 of the Stipulated Disposition is amenﬁed to
increase the administrative fine to $5,000.00.

3. The first sentence of Paragraph 4 is amended to read:

Respondent shall attend 30 hours of
Category I Continuing Medical Education
courses, 2) of which shall be in the
subject area of internal medicine and
family practice and 5 hours in the
subject area of risk management.

4. In addition to the other provisions of the Stipuiaied
Disposition Respondent's license to practice medicine in the
State of Florida is placed on PROBATION for a period of one yoot,
subject to the follcwing terms and conditions:

a. Respondent shall comply with all state and federri
statutes, rules and regulations pertaining to the practice of
medicine, including Chapters 455, 458, and 893, Florida Statutes,
and Rules 21M, Florida Administrative Code.

b. Respondent shall appear before the Probation Committee
at the first meeting after said probation commences, at the last
meeting of the Proba:ion Committee preceding termination of
probation, and at such other times requested by the Committee.

c. In the even; Respondent leaves the State of Florida to;
a period of thirty (30) days or more, or otherwise does not

engage in the active practice of medicine in Florida, Lhen

certain provisions of Respondent's probation (and only those

provisions of said probation) shall be tolled as enumerated below
and shall remain in n tolled status until Respondent returns to
active practice in the State of Florida. Respondent must kehp

current residence and business addresses on file with tho Huird‘

4. Patient H. K. had an indwelling jejunostemy feeding
tube and on or abou: November 7, 1988, around 3:45 a.m. the ULISG
noted that the patient had pulled his feeding tube out.

5. After unsuccessfully attempting to reinsert the
jejunostomy feeding tube, the nurse informed Respondent who was
making the morning rounds, that the feeding tube was diep aged
and could not be reinserted.

6. Thereafter; on or about November 7, 1988, Regpondeni
attempted to reinsert the feeding tube by inserting a curved and
a straight tube hemcstat into the stoma without success.

7. Thereaftex, on the same date, Respondent requested a
coat hanger which he untwisted and inserted into the tube. Using
the coat hanger, Respondent inserted the feeding tube into
patient H. K.‘s stona.

8. Later, on or about November 7, 1988, Patient H; R,'s
blood pressure began to drop, he began to vomit and was then
transferred to Jackson Hospital.

9. AS a result of Respondent‘s attempts to reinaert
patient H. K.'s feeding tube with a coat hanger, the pdiieni'a
intestineEend stomacﬁlwere perforated.

10. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that Level
of care, skill and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under simiiar
conditions and Circunstances in that Respondent failed to return
patient H. K. to the operating room for appropriate reinsertion

0f the feeding tube. Instead, Respondent attempted blind funcjug

of the tube into the jejunum with a coat hanger.

11. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331 (l)(t), Florida Statutes by failing to practice medinine
with that level of :are, skill, and treatment which is recognized
by a reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable
under similar conditions and circumstances.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requeets the Bnnsd
of Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocat on or suspension of the Respondent's ljuense,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Hudrd

deems appropriate.

7
SIGNED this [Egﬂtv day of ”Zlﬁltﬁqhégﬁ:§:::::¢, 1989‘

LARRY GON ZI—LLE Z
Secretary

Stephanie Danj.a;L
Chief Medit:dl ALLULney

UNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT: F IL 2

rice J. Ramos Damnmmnomemeunurnmﬂmn
egal Trainee AGENCYC H‘K
Department of Professional

Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750
(904) 488—0062
CJR/pt
10/22/89 DATE

miRK

 

PCP:

Respondent shall nouify the Board within ten (l0) days of any
changes of said addresses. Furthermore, Respondent shall nuiiiy
the Board within ten (10) days in the event that Respondent
leaves the active practice of medicine in Florida.

d. In the eveLt that Respondent leaves the active preciice
of medicine in this state for a period of thirty days or more,
the following provisions of his probation shall be tolled;

l. The time period of probation shall be tolled.

2. The provisions regarding preparation of investigative
reports detailing compliance with this Order shall be
tolled.

e. Respondent shall Submit quarterly reports in affidavit
form, the contents of which shall be specified by the Board. Tﬂw
reports shall include:

Brief statement of why physician is on probation.
Practice lacation

Describe Cirrent practice (type and composition)
Brief statement of compliance with probation terms.
Describe relationship with monitoring/supervisjng

physician.
(6) Advise Boa:d of any problems.

Aﬁd‘kt—KA
U‘l ~P- LJ N |*-'
VVVu—vv

f. During thin period of probation, semiannual
investigative reportu will be compiled by the DepartmenL of
Professional Regulat_on concerning Respondent's compliance wiLh
the terms and conditions of probation and the rules and Statutes
regulating the pract ce of medicine.

9. Respondent ahall pay all costs necessary to comply with

the terms of the Order issued based on this pIOceeding. Surh

costs includer but are not limited to, the cost of preparation 0t

investigative repor;5 detailing compliance with the terms oi this
proceeding and administrative costs directly associated with
Respondent's probation. See Section 458.33l(2j, Florida

Statutes.

Accordingly, tie parties shall adhere to and abide by all of
the terms and conditions of the Stipulation as amended.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department of Professional Regulation.

. u:- ../
DONE AND ORDERED this {1 day of June 19-

{.0

0.
BOARD OF MEDICINE

/.\\\'

- , \

1’}! _
ZAGﬁﬁEﬁAH, mwm.

   
   

 

ZACHARIA .
VICE CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

 

I HEREBY CERTIFT that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Richard m.
Laubaugh, M.D., Route 4, Box 300, Marianna, Florida 32446 and
Charles M. Wynn, Attorney at Law, 310 East Jackson Street,
Marianna, Florida 32446 and by interoffice delivery to Mary B.
Radkins, Attorney at Law, Department of Professional Regulation,
Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida
32399—0792, at or before 5:00 P.M., this ﬂlELM day of

, 199C.

 

Orders/LaubaughR

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
DOAI—I CASE NO . 3' 9 - ? i") l. 1
VS . DPR CASE NO . U | HJQH %

RICHARD M. LAUBAUGH, M.D.,

Respondent.

 

SEIBHLAILQN

Richard M. Lausaugh, M.D., referred to as RespoudwnL; and
the Department of Professional Regulation, reierred to as
Department, stipulate and agree to the following jDiHL
Stipulation and Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred
to as Board, incorporating this Stipulation and agreement Ln
this case.

SIIEDLAIEQFEACES

1. At all times material to this .lTlali.L€:‘I‘, Resl’nﬁnrle-nr
was a licensed physician in the State of Florida having been
issued license number ME 0048837.

2. RespondeLt was charged by CH1 Administratlve
Complaint filed by the Department and‘ properly served upon
Respondent with violations of Chapter 458, Florida StdLUUﬂL
and the rules enacted pufsuant thereto. A true and correct
copy Of the Administrative Complaint is attached and
incorporated by reference as Exhibit A.

3. Respondert neither admits nor denies the
allegations of fact contained in the AdanisLtaLivn ChmylaihL

attached as Exhibit A.

SI!EHLAIED_CQNQLUSIQNS_QEHLAH

1. Respondent, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, admits that in such capacity he is subject to the
provisions of Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutee, end the
jurisdiction of the Department and the Board.

2. Respondert admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative CompLaint, attached hereto as Exhibit “A”, if
proven, constitute violations of Chapter 458, Elutido

Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative Complaint.
SEIEULAIED_DLSEQSIILQH

1. Respondent shall not in the future violate Chaytejﬁ
455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated
pursuant thereto.

2. The Boar(l shall impose an administrative Line in
the amount of $2,530.00 against the Respondent. 'rhe fine
shall be paid by the Respondent to the Executive Director at
the Board within 90 days of its imposition by Final Order 01

the Board.

3. The Respcndent shall receive a reperand [rum the
Board of Medicine.
gﬁ;
4. Responden: shall attend,‘?9~ hours Of Catequy I

3.." \5 III UUKU
Continuing Medical Education eeurses in the area of rjek

management. These hours shall be in addition to those hours
required for renewal of licensure.
5. Responden1's license to practice medicine shall be

hereinafter restricted in that Respondent shall not Hugﬁgé in

invasive procedures except those which are normaiiy associated
with orthopedic SLrgery. "RespeﬁdentW—issnfreeswte"ptattieee

“‘With—i—ﬂ-ﬁ-he—GOn-f-i-Hei ——e—f_~—the__Dep_aerILenttt. DLtCuzixmt‘. 114' (ms. w j, i; how i.
restrictiani

6. Should Respondent wish to practice medicine in
another specialty he shall first prove to the Board by Clear
and convincing evicence that he is able to practice in that
speciality with reasonable skill and safety to patients Such
proof shall include, but not be limited to, satisfactory
completion of a BDard approved residency program in that
specialized area of medicine.

7. It is expressly understood that this Stipulation is
subject to the approval of the Board and the Department. in
this regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing
paragraphs of the Szipulated Facts, Stipulated Conclusions of
Law and Stipulated Disposition) shall have no force and ergect
unless a Final Order is entered incorporating the terms (JE
this Stipulation, by the Board.

8. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the
meeting of the Boatd where this Stipulatiou is consideted.
Respondent, in conﬁunction with the consideration oi this
Stipulation by the Board, shall respond to questions under
oath from the Board, Board Staff or Department Statt.

9. Should tris Stipulation be rejected, no statement
made in furtherance of this Stipulatioa, by the hesyuudeut
may be used as direct evidence against the Respondent in any
proceeding; however. such statements may be uSed by the
Petitioner for impeachment only.

_ 3 _

10. Respondent and the Department fully understand that
this joint Stipulation and subsequent Final Uidut
incorporating same will in no way preclude addithth
preceedings by the Board and/or the Department against thw
Respondent for acts or omissions not specifically set forth in
the Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit ”A“ herein.

11. Upon the Board‘s adoption of this Stipulation,
Respondent expressly waives all further procedural steps, and
expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of e: tu
otherwise challenge or contest the validity Hi the leHL
Stipulation of faccs, conclusions of law and imposition oi
discipline, and the Final Order‘ of the Board incorporating
said Stipulation.

12. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation, the
parties hereby agree that each party will hear his mum
attorney's fees anc costs resulting from prosecution, andfet
defense of this proceeding. Respondent waives the right to
seek any attorney's fees or costs from the Department in
connection with this disciplinary proceeding.

13. This Stipulation is executed by the Respondent fer
the purpose of avciding further administrative action with

respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes

the Board to review and examine all investigative rile
materials concerninq Respondent prior to or ,mi conjunction
with consideration of the Stipulation. Furthermwrw, shuuld

this joint Stipulation ruﬂ: be accepted tar the heard, it is

agreed that presentation to and consideraLion of this

Stipulation and other documents and matters by the Board Shall
not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or any of 115
members frOm further participation, consideraLimn UL

resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED this fﬁéf; day 0E IVYxchﬁf . , 1990.

'1‘.

, f\
Qllﬁhtﬂ ??Jv‘

x.

Richard M. Labbautghl MfD.

 

 

Sworn to and subscr bed

befo e me this ﬂih— day

   

N—OTARY P ) ”'Noim' F‘Ubiln.’ 52.131? of Florida at Lame
“Mxrnnnvartn1rrcv:s;h;ch13,1992
Bonded 121:1: l'..".‘..U.;vrry G1 Associates

My Commission Expires:

APPROVED this _% day of W‘{ !, 1990.

Larry Gonzalez
Secretary

,1, (”b y

: StephanieA A. Danie]
Chief Mechal Atto1ney

 

Mg?

02/12/90
1154

 

CHARLES M MYNM <:_<~
ATTORNEY FOR RESPONDENT

 

STATE OF FLORIDA

DEPARFMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

PetitLoner,
VS. CASE NO, UJlUij
RICHARD M. LAUBAUGH M.D.,

Respondent.

vvgszvvvvvv

ADMINISEEAIIMELLZHEEﬁJNI

COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professiondl
Regulation, hereinaiter referred to as "Petitioner”, and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medirino
against Richard M. Iaubaugh, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent", and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency Charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, FlOiiQd
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter QBB, yiorida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material heLeLu
a licensed physician in the State Of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0048837. Respondent's last known addLess is
Route 4, Box 300, Marianna, Florida 32446.

3. On or about November 7, 1988, Respondent treated
patient H. K., a 71 year old Comatose patient at Suniand Center,

in Marianna, Florida.

