BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL F l L E D

REGULATION, Department of Professiona! Regutatlon
Petitioner, OARD CL RK
V_ CLER
ROBERT P. CAMERON, M.D., DATE 1-in-3}...
License Number: 11082, . .
X‘Ll Jhééﬁdéz
Respondent. Ci?
/ ,4 x V

FINAL ORDER OF
THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

This matter came for final action by the Board of Medical
Examiners (Board hereinafter) on December 6, 1981, in St. Peters-
burg Beach, Florida, for consideration of the StiEulation submitted
in this matter by the Department of Professional Regulation and
Robert P. Cameron, M D., (Respondent hereinafter), a copy of which
is attached hereto and made a part hereof by reference thereto as
Exhibit A. In consideration thereof, the Board finds and concludes
as follows:

1. The facts contained in the STIPULATED FACTS of the
StiEulation (Exhibit A), are adopted by the Board and incorporated
herein as the findings of fact of the Board.

2. The statements contained in the STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS
OF LAW of the Stigulation (Exhibit A), are adopted by the Board
and incorporated herein as the conclusions of law of the Board.

Based upon these findings of fact and conclusions of law,
the Board adopts and incorporates herein the STIPULATED DISPOSI-
TION contained in the Stigulation (Exhibit A). IT IS THEREFORE

ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the license to practice medicine
in the State of Florida of Robert P. Cameron, M.D., be and hereby
is reprimanded; that Respondent shall not in the future violate
Chapters 893 or 458, Florida Statues, or the rules promulgated
pursuant thereto; that Respondent pay an administrative fine of

five hundred dollars ($500 00); and that Respondent shall not in

the future order, dispense or stock Schedule II and III controlled

substances pursuant to Chapter 893, Florida Statutes (1979), except
that Respondent may store a minimal amount of meperidine (demorol)

in liquid form to be used only under emergency circumstances. All

controlled substances stored and dispensed in Respondent's medical

office shall be under the direct control of Resgondent only.

DONE AND ORDERED this 14 day of /’([un\."}ﬁv , 1981.

 

cc: All Counsel of Record.
Robert P. Cameron, M.D.

BEFORE THE STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION, BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS,
Petitioner,
vs. CASE NO. 0011262
ROBERT P. CAMERON, M.D.,

Respondent.
_____________________________

STIPULATION

 

Robert P. Cameron, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent," and the Department ef Professional Regulation,
hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner,“ hereby stipulate and
agree to the following joint stipulation and a final order of
the Board of Medical Examiners, hereinafter referred to as
"Board,“ incorporating this stipulation and agreement in the
above—styled matter.

STIPULATBD fACTS

1. At all times pertinent to the instant action, Respondent
was a licensed medical doctor in the State of Floridag'having
been issued license number MEOOllO82. The last known address
of the Respondent is 530 North Palo Alto Avenue, Panama City,
Florida 32401.

2. Respondent was charged by an administrative complaint
filed by the Petitioner with violations of Chapters 458 and
893, Florida Statutes (1979).

3. Between approximately June 1980 and June 1981, Re—
spondent purchased for his medical office approximately
twelve hundred (1200) tablets of Biphetamine 20 (Amphetamine)
and twenty five hundred (2500) tablets of DextrOamphetamine,
Schedule II controlled substances pursuant to Chapter 893,
Florida Statutes.

4. Respondent did not keep adequate medical records de—
tailing the amounts of Biphetamine 20 and Dextroamphetamine
tablets dispensed to each patient and the dates of said dis—

pensing. Respondent did not make a complete and accurate record

KJJ

of all stocks of controlled substances on hand.
5. As'a result of Respondent's failure to keep adequate
records, Respondent is unable to account for the whereabouts

of a portion of the Biphetamine 20 and Dextroamphetamine

tablets.

6. There is no evidence that Respondent sold, or dispensed
to himself, any of the tablets. The evidence, as developed in
the investigation of the instant action, reveals the extent of
the Respondent's wrongful actions as solely a failure to
safeguard, and keep adequate medical and stock records of,
the tablets.

STIPULATION CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. Respondent in his capacity as a licensed medical doctor
admits that in such capacity he is subject to the provisions of
Chapters 458 and 893, Florida Statutes (1979), and the juris-
diction of the Petitionet and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts as set forth in the
foregoing stipulated facts constitute violations of Sections
458.331(l)(h) and (n) and 893.07(3), Florida Statutes (1979).

STIPULATED DISPOSITION

1. Respondent shall be reprimanded by the Board basedg>
upon the stipulated facts and stipulated conclusions of law
which demonstrate violations by the Respondent of Chapters 458
and 893, Florida Statutes (1979).

2. Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters
458 and 893, Florida Statutes (1979), or the rules promulgated
pursuant thereto.

3. The Board shall impose an administrative fine of $500
against the Respondent which fine shall be paid by the Respondent
within thirty (30) days of imposition of same by final order of
the Board.

4. Respondent shall not in the ftture order, dispense or
stock Schedule II and III controlled substances pursuant to
Chapter 893, Florida Statutes (1979), except that Respondent may

store a minimal amount of meperidine (demerol) in liquid form to

be used only under emergency circumstances. All controlled

-2-

KM

\k/

substances stored and dispensed in Respondent's medical office
shall be under the direct control of Respondent only.

5. It is expressly understood that this stipulation is
subject to approval of the Board and Petitioner and has no force
and effect until a final order adopting it without amendment
is entered by the Board.

6. This stipulation is executed by the Respondent for
the purpose of avoiding any further administrative action with
respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes
the Board to review and examine all investigative file materials
concerning Respondent prior to or in conjunction with considera-
tion of the stipulation. Furthermore, should this stipulation
not be accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to
and consideration of this stipulation and other documents and
matters by the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice
the Board or any of its members from further participation,
consideration or resolution of these proceedings. In the event
the Board fails to approve this stipulation, it shall be null
and void; and the Respondent shall not be held to have waived
in any way the right to a hearing pursuant to Section 120.57,
Florida Statutes, or any other legal rights not specifically _
waived by this stipulation, by virtue of having entered intb
this stipulation. In the event the Board fails to approve this
stipulation and a proceeding pursuant to Section 120.57, Florida
Statutes, is held resulting in a finding that Respondent is
guilty of the alleged charges, Respondent hereby waives any
defense to entry of a final order by the Board based upon this
stipulation.

7. Respondent and the Department fully understand that
this stipulation and subsequent final order incorporating same
will in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board
and/or Petitioner against the Respondent for acts or omissions
not specifically set forth in the administrative complaint
(attached as exhibit A) issued in the instant action.

8. Respondent expressly waives all further procedural

steps, and expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review

3'1

of or to otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the

stipulation of facts, conclusions of law and imposition of

discipline, and the final order of the Board incorporating

said stipulation.

7617’:—

SIGNED, DATED and entered into this 5 t day of

am , 1981f

    

. L WRENCH, II
Deputy General Counsel
Department of Professional
Regﬁdation
130 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32301
Attorney for Petitioner
Department of Professional
Regulation F

1/ \

DEAN BUNCH
of the law firm of
Ervin, Varn, Jacobs,
Odom and Kitchen
Post Office Drawer 1170
Tallahassee, Florida 32302—1170
904/224-9135
Attorneys for Respondent
Robert P. Cameron, M.D.

I

/

r
.—

 

C:;;Z&L4 Z é;p CZQvHAQV'La_/<4?/3

Read and approved by
ROBERT P. CAMERON, M.D.
this /3’ day of November, 1981.

x

AW . ‘
SAMUEL R. SHORSTEIN
Secretary

Department of Professional Regulation

STET: OF FLORIDA
DEPARTHEKT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION/BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS,

Petitioner,

v ‘ CASE NO. 0011262

ROBERT P. CAMERON, MID.

Respondent.

/

 

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

 

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner", and files
this administrative complaint against Robert P. Cameron, M.D.,
hereinafter referred to as "Respondent" and alleges:

1. The Petitioners seek to revoke, suspend or take other
disciplinary action against the Respondent as licensee and against
his license as a medical doctor under the laws of the State of
Florida.

2. The Respondent is a licensed medical doctor having

been issued license number ME 0011082. The last known address

of the Respondent is 530 North Palo Alto Avenue, Panama City,
Florida 32401. . . " ‘““
COUNT ONE ‘

3. Between approximately June 1980 and June 1981, Respondent
has purchased approximately twelve-hundred (1200) tablets of
Biphetamine 20 (amphetamine) and twenty-five hundred (2500) tablets
of Dextroamphetamine, Schedule II controlled substances pursuant
to Chapter 893, F.S. for his medical office.

4. Respondent does not keep adequate medical records
detailing the amounts of biphetamine 20 and dextroamphetamine
tablets dispensed to each patient and the dates of said dispensing.
Respondent has never made.a complete and accurate record of
all stocks of controlled substances on hand.

5. Based upon the foregoing, the Respondent has violated
Section 897.07, F.S. by failing to maintain adequate medical

records of stocks and dispensing of controlled substances. As

such, Respondent has violated Section 458.331(1)(h), F.S. (1979),

VEXHIBIT A ., V..‘ . ,. , ‘30

 

4’
.
b; EJLA-:: CO gerturw 1 ‘:3:u:0:” c: -LCJL OClLOJCLOH
COUIYZ‘ TWO
6. The Petitioner rcalleges as if fully set forth herein

the allegations of fact concaxned in Paragraph 3 through 5 above.

7. Based upon the foregoing, the Respondent has violated
Section 458.33l(l)(h), F.S. by failing to keep a written medical
record justifying the course of treatment of patients.

7
Signed this /7 day of /2Chﬁg¢¢f‘

. 1981.

        

/ (L4¢;'
NﬁhCY K€}ley witte berg, Secr t ry

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Joseph W. Lawrence, II

Deputy General Counsel

Department of Professional Regulation
130 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, FL 32301

(904) 483 0062

 

Lu

<\J

 

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION

Lawton Chiles, Governor Doug Cook, Director

February 21, 1995

FLORIDA BOARD OF MEDICINE

1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 323990770 RObert B - Cameron 1 M - D -

Telephone (904) 488.0595

Chaim
Gary E. Winchester, M.D.
Tallahassee, Florida

Msmngs
Fund 5. Ashkar, M.D.

Miami, Florida

Richard James Cavallaro, MD.
Naples, Florida

lidward A. Daucr, M.D.
l-‘t. laudvrdalc, Hurida

Maribel Diblan, JD‘
Coral Gables, Florida

Emilio Echevarria, MD.
Tampa, Florida

Georges A. El-Bahri, M.D.
Jacksonville, Florida

Martin J. Fenwick, M.D.
Coral Springs, Florida

Mary Kathryn Garrett, MD.
Orlando, Florida

John W. Glotfelty, MD.
Lakeland, Florida

Louis C. Murray, MD.
Orlando, Florida

Cecile M. Scoon, JD.
Panama City, Flmida

Margaret S. Skinner, M.D.
West Palm Beach, Florida

H . Frt‘d Vdrn
Tallahassee, l’lurida

Abraham L. Woods, MD.
Lake Mary, Florida

E 'D‘

Marm M. Harris

4541 North Davis Hwy
Suite A
Pensacola, Florida 32503

Dear Dr. Cameron:

(copy enclosed), you were required to pay an
administrative fine and complete continuing medical
education in risk management.

This will serve to acknowledge successful fulfillment of
all requirements as set forth in this Order. ‘

If you have any questions, please feel free to contact
this office at (904) 488-0595. ' ‘

Sincerely,

Crys al A. Grif
Prof ssional Re ation Specialist II
Compliance Officer

Cagaza/ﬂga ‘

/Cg

Enclosure

DIVISION OF MEDICAL QUALITY ASSURANCE
NORTHWOODCENTRE 0 1940 NORTH MONROE 5mm . TALLAHASSEE, FLORIDA 32399-0770

