":3

FILED

Department of Professional Rectu‘ﬁ“"
AGENCY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATfaN .
BOARD OF MEDICINE (L)Ié:
C/ V

 

 

 

 

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL CLERK
REGULATION,
1.,
. DATE 9' 3 t 9 ?—
Petitioner,
DPR CASE NUMBER: 89-04035, 0097536
—vsﬂ DOAH CASE NUMBER: 90—2212

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0025012
GERALD COOPER, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

This cause came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pur5uant to Section l20.57(l)(b)10, Florida Statutes, on February
7, 1992, in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, for the purpose of
considering the Hearing Officer's Recommended Order (a copy of
which is attached hereto as Exhibit A) in the above—styled cause.
Petitioner, Department of Professional Regulation, was
represented by Randolph P. Collette, Attorney at Law. Respondent
was not present or represented.

Upon review of the Recommended Order, the argument of the
parties, and after a review of the complete record in this case,
the Board makes the following findings and conclusions.

FINDINGS OF FACT

1. Paragraph 4 of the findings of fact contains statements
which the Board finds are not findings of fact, but are
conclusions of law and a recommendation on penalty. Those
statements are rejected and the Board adopts as the finding of
fact the following:

Given these facts, Respondent's practice
of medicine after his license had

become inactive constitutes a violation
of Section 458.331(1)(x), Florida Statutes.

2. All of the other findings of fact set forth in the
Recommended Order are approved and adopted and incorporated
herein.

3. There is competent substantial evidence to support the
findings of fact.

CONCLUQIONS OF LAW

1. The Board has jurisdiction of this matter pursuant to
Section l20.57(1), Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. The last sentence of Paragraph 7 of the conclusions of
law is rejected on the basis that it is not supported by evidence
or the law.

3. In all other respects, the conclusions of law set forth
in the Recommended Order are approved and adopted and

incorporated herein.

4. There is competent substantial evidence to support the
conclusions of law.
PENALTY
Upon a complete review of the record in this case, the Board
determines that the penalty recommended by the Hearing Officer be
ACCEPTED and ADOPTED.

WHEREFORE,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that
The Respondent is guilty of violations of Section
458.33l(1)(t) and (x), Florida Statutes. Count II of the

Administrative Complaint is DISMISSED. Accordingly,

Statutes. Specifically, the Administrative Complaint alleged
that Respondent's license should be disciplined for violating
Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes in that he committed
gross or repeated malpractice or failed to practice medicine with
that level of care, skill and treatment which is recognized by a
reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under
similar circumstances; Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes,
in that he failed to keep written medical records justifying the
course of treatment of Patient D.J.D. ihcluding but not limited
to patient histories, examination results and test results; and
Section 458.331(l)(x), Florida Statutes, in that he violated a
provision of Chapter 458, by practicing medicine in Florida while
his license was inactive and was in violation of Section
458.327(l)(a), Florida Statutes. Respondent disputed the
allegations of the Administrative Complaint and requested a
formal administrative hearing. Respondent’s request was
forwarded to the Division of Administrative Hearings.

At the hearing, Petitioner offered eight exhibits and
the testimony of three witnesses. Petitioner also presented the
deposition testimony of Jack F. Kareff, M.D. Respondent
testified on his own behalf but did not offer any exhibits into
‘evidence.

Petitioner filed its Proposed Recommended Order on
August 1, 1991. Respondent did not file a Proposed Recommended
Order. The Petitioner's proposed findihgs of fact have been
cohsideted and utilized in the preparation of this Recommended

Order, except where such findings were not shown by the evidence,

or were immaterial, irrelevant, cummulative or subordinate.

Specific rulings on the Petitioner's Proposed Findings of Fact

are contained in the appendix to this Recommended Order.
FINDINGS OF FACT

1. At all times material to this proceeding,
Respondent was licensed as a physician in the State of Florida
having been issued licensed number ME 0025012.

2. On January 1, 1990 Respondent's license to
practice medicine in the State of Florida became inactive.
Respondent was not aware that his license had become inactive
because he had not received the usual notice from the Board that
his license was due to be renewed. The notice had been mailed to
Respondent’s last known address.

3. At Respondent’s own admission, Respondent
continued to practice medicine in the State of Florida after his
license had become inactive. However, Respondent immediately
ceased such practice when he learned that his license was
inactive. Respondent’s license has never been reactivated.

4. Given these facts, Respondent’s practice of
medicine after his license had become inactive constitutes only a
minor violation of Section 458.331(l){x), Florida Statutes. The
penalty for such a violation should be minor. Therefore, a
letter of reprimand would be appropriate in this case.

I 5. In 1984, Dr. Cooper was employed as a staff

physician in the emergency room of Tallahssee Memorial Regional

Medical Center.

6. On March 30, 1984, Patient D.J.D., a nineteen year
old male, ingested an unknown quantity of the drug Asendin.

7. Asendin is a tricycline antidepressant drug.

8. Patient D.J.D. told his roommate what he had done.
His roommate called an ambulance. The ambulance transported
Patient D.J.D. to Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Center
(TMRCM) While D.J.D. was being transported to TMRCM, the
Respondent, who was on duty in the TMRMC emergency room, gave the
paramedics who were treating Patient D.J.D. en route orders by
phone to give patient D.J.D. 30 cc’s of Ipecac with water to
induce vomiting. The Ipecac was administered but Patient D.J.D.
did not vomit.

9. When the paramedics arrived at the hospital at
8:16 p.m., Patient D.J.D. was coherent and responded
appropriately to questions. He was conscious and was sitting up
with his eyes open. Approximately twenty minutes after D.J.D.
arrived at the hospital, he had a grand mal seizure. Respondent
was made aware of the seizure.

10. Respondent performed an initial evaluation of
Patient D.J.D. and wrote orders for an intravenous line, blood
and urine analysis. The emergency room nurse did not inform
”Respondent that D.J.D. was an overdose patient. However,
Respondent did not question the ER nurse about Patient D.J.D.'s
history.

11. At approximately 9:00 p;m., Patient D.J.D. had a

second grand mal seizure.

12. Following Patient D.J.D.’s second grand mal
seizure, the Respondent administered Valium, Phenobarbital and
Dilantin. After the drugs were administered Respondent asked the

ER nurse about D.J.D.'s history.

13. Although Respondent was made aware that Patient
D.J.D. had overdosed on Asendin, at no time did he pump or lavage
Patient D.J.D.’s stomach or administer charcoal.

14. Charcoal is used with Asendin overdose patients
to absorb the drug from the patientﬂs system. It is usually

diluted with sorbitor and pushed into the stomach.

15. Gastric lavage involves washing the stomach
contents out with saline solution.

16. Dr. Jack F. Kareff, M.D., who has conpleted a
three year residency in emergency medicine and who has been with
Humana Hospital Bennett Emergency Department in Plantation,
Florida, testified as an expert in emergency medicine. Dr.
Kareff was of the opinion that Respondent should have lavaged or
pumped Patient D.J.D.’s stomach and/or administered charcoal and
that by not doing so, Dr. Cooper failed to practice medicine with
that level of care, skill and treatment that is recognized as
being acceptable in his treatment of Patient D.J.D.’s overdose.

1?. Respondent stated that he did not lavage Patient
D.J.D.’s stomach or administer charcoal since it was not
appropriate treatment for a patient who is seizing. Respondent
stated that this is difficult to do as the teeth are clenched and
it is difficult to force a tube in. However, the evidence showed

that Patient D.J.D. had an oral air tube placed by either

Respondent or the nurse after his first seizure. In fact, at ohe
point during the treatment of Patient D.J.D., Respondent rteaced
the patient’s airway tube. Such evidence indicates that
Respondent’s reasoning is not well founded.

18. Respondent also states that he did not lavage
patient D.J.D.’s stomach or administer charcoal because Asendin
is absorbed very rapidly. However, the better evidence
demonstrated that in the case of an overdose of the tricyclic
antidepressants, like Asendin, gastric stasis is accomplished.
Therefore, the stomach does not empty as fast as it usually does
and the drug may still be in the stomach up to 12 hours after
ingestion. The failure of Dr. Cooper to administer such
treatment and immediately inquire about the patient’s history

constitutes a violation of Section 458.331(l)(t), Florida

 

 

Statutes by falling below the standards of practice of medicine
recognized in the community.

19. Dr. Kareff testified that the Respondent failed
to keep written medical records justifying the course of
treatment of Patient D.J.D. in that the records did not justify
Respondent’s failure to pump or lavage his stomach and administer
charcoal. However, in 1984, a doctor was not_required to keep
-records justifying a course of treatment not given and it is
questionable whether practicably speaking such records can be

kept. Therefore, Respondent is not guilty of violating Section

 

458.33l(l)(m), Florida Statutes, and Connt II of the

Administrative Complaint should be dismissed.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. The Division of Administrative Hearings has
jurisdiction over the parties to, and the subject matter of this
proceeding. Section 120.57(l), Florida Statutes.

2. Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, authorizes the Board
of Medicine to regulate the practice of medicine. Specifically,
Section 458.331, Florida Statutes, provides for the revocation,
su5pension or other discipline of a physician’s license for
various violations of Section 458.331(l), Florida Statutes.
Section 458.331 states in pertinent part, that a physician may be

disciplined for:

(m) Failing to keep written medical
records justifying the course of
treatment of the patient, including, but
not limited to, patient histories;
examination results: test results;
records of drugs prescribed, diSpensed,
or administered, and reports of
consultations and hospitalizations.

(t) Gross or repeated malpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with
that level of care, skill, and treatment
which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being
acceptable under similar conditions atd
circumstances.

(x) Violating any provision of Chapter
458, a rule of the board or Department,
or a lawful order of the Board or
Department previously entered in a
disciplinary action.

3. Section 458.319, Florida Statutes, states in

pertinent part:

(1) The department shall renew a
license upon receipt of the renewal
application and fee not to exceed $250.

(2) The department shall adept rules
estaolishing a procedure for the
biennial renewal of licenses.

(3) Any license which is not renewed at
the end of the biennium prescribed by
the department shall automatically
revert to an inactive status. Such
license may be reactivated only if the

licensee meets the other qualifications
for reactivation in s. 458.321

4. Section 458.327, Florida Statutes, states in

pertinent part:

(1) Each of the following acts
constitutes a felony of the third
degree, punishable as provided in s.
775.032, 5. 775.083, or s. 775.084:

(a) The practice of medicine or an

attempt to practice medicine without an
active license.

5. The Department has the burden of proof in a license
discipline case and must establish by clear and convincing
evidence that Respondent has violated the provisions of Chapter
458, Florida Statugeg.

6. In tliS case, the Department has established by
clear and convincing evidence that Respondent failed to order
gastric lavage, charcoal and cathartic therapy for Patient D.J.D.
and that by so failing Respondent failed to practice medicine
with that level of care, skill and treatment which is recognized
by a reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable
under similar conditions and circumstances. The violation
contributed to the eventual death of D.J.D. and therefore is a
serious violation bf Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

7. Adstionally, the Department established by clear

and convincing ev;dence that Respondent practiced medicine in

Florida while his License was on inactive status. Such action
violates Section 458.331(l)(x), Florida Statutes by violating

Section 458.327(l)(a), Florida Statutes. However, this violation
was minimal and should not subject Respondent to more than a

letter of reprimand.

8. The Department failed to present clear and
convincing evidence that Respondent failed to keep written
medical records justifying the course of his treatment of Patient
D.J.D. in violation of Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes.

The statute does not require a physician to keep medical records

for treatments not given. Degartment of Professional RegulationE

Board of Medicine v. Breesman, 15 F.L.W. D2249 (Fla. lst DCA

Sept. 5, 1990). Therefore, Count II of the Administrative

Complaint should be dismissed.

9. Rule 21M—20.001, Florida Administrative Code,

provides:

Qisciglinagy Guidelines.

(1) Purpose. Pursuant to Section 2,
Chapter 86-90, Laws of Florida, the
Board provides within this rule
disciplinary guidelines which shall he
inposed upon applicants or licensees
wrom it regulates under Chapter 458,
F.S. The purpose of this rule is to
notify applicants and licensees of the
ranges of penalties which will routinely
be imposed unless the Board finds it
necessary to deviate from the guidelines
for the stated reasons given within this
rule. The ranges of penalties provided
beldw are based upon a single count
violation of each provision listed;
multiple counts of the violations may
result in a higher penalty than that for
a single, isolated violation. Each
range includes the lowest and highest
penalty and all penalties falling

between. The purposes of the impositiOn
of discipline are to punish the
applicants or licensees for violations
and to deter them from future
violations; to offer opportunities for
rehabilitation, when appropriate: and to
deter other applicants or licensees from
violations.

(2) Violations and Range of Penalties.
In imposing discipline upon applicants
and licensees, in proceedings pursuant
to Section 120.S7(l) and 120.57(2),
Florida Statutes, the Board shall act in
accordance with the following
disciplinary guidelines and shall impose
a penalty within the range corresponding
to the violations set forth below. The
verbal identification of offenses are
descriptive only: the full language of
each statutory provision cited must be
consulted in order to determine the
conduct included.

(t) Malgractice — From two (2) years
probation to revocation or denial, and
an administrative fine from $250.00 to
$5,030.00.

(x) Violation of lawI ruleE orderl or
failJre to comgly with subgoena — From a
reprimand to revocation or denial, and
an aiministrative fine from $250.00 to
$5,000.00.

 

(3) Aggravating and Mitigating
Circumstances.

 

Based upon consideration of aggravating
and mitigating factors present in an
individual case, the Board may deviate
from the penalties recommended above.
The Board shall consider as aggravating
or mitigating factors the following:

(a) Exposure of patient or public to
injury or potential injury, physical or
otherwise: none, slight,_severe, or
death:

(b) Legal status at the time of the
offense: no restraints, or legal
constraints; '

x

10

provides:

10.

(c) The number of counts or separate
offenses established;

(d) The number of times the same
offense or offenses have previously been
committed by the licensee or applicant:

(e) The disciplinary history of the
applicant or licensee in any

jurisdiction and the length of practice;

(f) Pecuniary benefit or self-gain
inuring to the applicant or licensee;

(g) Any other relevant mitigating
factors.

Rule 21M—20.011, Florida Administrative Code,

Notice of Noncomgliance.

(1) Pursuant to Section 455.225(3),
Florida Statutes, the department is
authorized to provide a notice of
noncompliance for an initial offense of
a minor violation if the board
establishes by rule a list or minor
violations. A minor violation is one
which does not endanger the public
health, safety, and welfare and which
does not demonstrate a serious inability
to practice the profession.

(c) Violating any of the following
provisions of chapter 458, as prohibited
by Section 458.331(l)(x), Florida
Statutes:

:1) Section 458.327, Florida
Statutes, which provides for criminal
penalties for the practice of medicine
without an active license. A notice of
noncompliance would be issued for this
viJlation only if the subject of the
imiestigation met the following
criteria: the subject must be the
holder of a license to practice medicine
at all time material to the matter: that
license is otherwise in good standing;
and that license must be renewed and

11

1. Respondent's license to practice medicine is
REPRIHANDED.

2. Respondent shall pay an administrative fine in the
amount of $4,000 to the Board of Medicine, Department of
Professional Regulation, within 30 days of the date this Final
Order is filed.

3. Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State
of Florida is_placed on PROBATION for a period of 2 years,
subject to the following terms and conditions:

a. Respondent shall comply with all state and federal
statutes, rules, and regulations pertaining to the practice of
medicine, including Chapters 455, 458, and 893, Florida Statutes,
and Rules 21M, Florida Administrative Code.

b. Respondent shall appear before the Probation Committee
at the first meeting after said probation commences, at the last
meeting of the Probation Committee preceding termination of
probation, and at such other times requested by the Committee.
Respondent shall be noticed by Board staff of the date, time and
place of the Board‘s Probation Committee meeting whereat
Respondent's appearance is required. Failure of the Respondent
to appear as requesced or directed shall be cohsidered a
violation of the terms of this Order, and shall subject the
Respondent to disciglinary action.

c. In the event Respondent leaves the State of Florida for
a period of thirty (30) days or more, or otherwise does not
engage in the active practice of medicine in the State of

Florida, then certain provisions of Respondent‘s probation (and

placed in an active status within 90
days of reverting to inactive status
based on failure to renew the license.
If the license was in an inactive status
for more than 90 days and the individual
continued to practice, then the matter
would proceed under the other provisions
of Section 455.225, Florida Statutes.

11. The evidence did not demonstrate any reason to go
outside the disciplinary guidelines in regards to Respondent's
violations of Section 458.331(1)(t) and (x), Florida Statutues.
However, given that a death was involved in Respondent’s
violations of Section 458.331(l)(t), Florida Statutes, the
financial penalty should be at the high end of the range
established in the guidelines.

RECOWDATION

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions
of Law, it is:

R.ECOM'P'ﬂENDIID :

That the Board of Medicine enter a Final Order finding
Respondent guilty of violating Sections 458.331(l)(t) and (x),
Florida Statutes, and that Respondent be: 1) reprimanded, 2)
fined $4,000.00, and 3) placed on probation for a period of two
years. If is further recommended that Count II of the
'Administrative Complaint be dismissed.

DONE and ORDERED this-‘éjﬂ day of October, 1991, in

Tallahassee , Florida;

44
DIANE CLEAVINGER

Hearing Officer
Division of Administrative Hearings

l2

The DeSoto Building

1230 Apalachee Parkway
Tallahassee, FL 32399-1550
(904) 488—9675

Filed with the Clerk of the

Division of Administrative Hearings

this |s+’day of October, 1991.
Copies furnished to: '

Francesca Small

Senior Attorney
Department of Professional
Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street
Suite 60

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792

Gerald Cooper
2114 Owens Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32301

Dorothy Faircloth

Department of Professional
Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street

Suite 60

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792

Jack McRay

General Counsel

Department of Professional
Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street

Suite 60

Tallahassee, Flor1da 32399—0792

gEPENDIx TO CASE NO. 90—2212

1. The facts contaired in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, S, 6, 7, 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23 of
Petitioner’s Proposed Findings of Fact are are adopted, in
substance insofar as material.

2. The facts contained in paragraph 24 of Petitioner’s Proposed
Findings of Fact were not shown by th evidence.

14

“‘K

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

vs. CASE NO. 0097686
8904035

GERALD A. COOPER, M.D.,

Respondent.

ADMINISIBAIIKE_QQMBLAIHI

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional'
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files
this AdministratLve Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against Gerald A. Cooper, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida

Statutes.

2. Re5pondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0025012. Respondent's last known address is
2114 Owens Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32301.
CQHHI_QHE
3. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one

{1) through two (2 as if fully set forth herein.

4. On or about March 30, 1984 Subject rendered emergency
care and treatment for Patient #1 in the emergency room of
Tallahassee Memarial Regional Medical Center, Tallahassee,
Florida for an overdose of Asendin. Asendin, a tricyclic
antidepressant causes rapid neurologic deterioration.

5. Patient #l's past medical history revealed that he was

epileptic, had a history of cerebral palsy and an unnamed

psychiatric problem. He Claimed not to have any allergies.
6. Upon a:rival at the emergency room, Patient #1 was
placed in a treatment room and evaluated by a nurse. Patient #1

stated he had taken Asendin 50 millgrmn tablets in an unknowh_
quantity at an unknown time. He was drowsy but aroused to verbal“
and painful stimuli as well as to questions. His speech rwas
slurred. Patient #1 denied any other drug consumption.

.7. Approximately 30 Ininutes aftei Patient {#1 arrived at
the emergency room he had a Grand Mal Seizure. This was the time
that the Subject had his first contact with Patient #1.

8. Approximately 15 minutes later Patient #1 had another
Grand Mal Seizure

9. Subject never ordered any specific treatment for the
overdose. No gastric lavage, administration of charcoal or
cathartic therapy was ordered.

10. Patient #1 shohld have had his stomach lavaged, even
though .Asendin absorption takes place fairly rapidly reaching
peak serum levels within 60-120 minutes after ingestion. The
ability of Asendin to decrease gastrointestinal motility and
delay gastric emptying will leave unabsorbed drugs in the stomach

for prolonged periods Of time.

0"“

' 1.1

C.“
r. W
L

11. Conconitant ingestion of other drugs can affect the
outcome of Asendijl overdose and should have been aggressively
treated with lavage, even where patients deny ingestion of other
drugs.

12. Patient #1 received inappropriate treatment in that
Respondent failed to order an appropriate poison control therapy.

13. A cathartic such as sorbitol, magnesiunn sulfate, or
magnesium citrate should have been administered to Patient #1
along with the appropriate poison control therapy. This
procedure would have speeded the elimination of remaining drugs
from Patient's gagtrointestinal tract.

14. The pat ent remained post—ictal from this point on in
his care experiencing 6 more Grand Mal Seizures during the next
hour.

_15. Subject did not meet the standard of care in treating
the overdose of drugs.

16. Only one dose of 300 milligrams of Dilantin was given
intravenously. This is inadequate as a loading dose for
seizures. Manufacturers recommend 150—250 milligrams initially,
followed by 100——150 mi: Lgrams every 30 minutes as needed.

17. Finally, approximately two and one-half hours after

arriving at the emergency room,- Patient #1 experienced
respiratory arrest. He eas ventilated and resuseitated several
times.

18. The seieres were finally abated in the emergency room.

The patient had a :omplex hospital course, but was discharged to

an extended care facility.

19. Patient #1 never regained consciousness and expired 28
months later.

20. Respondent failed to practice medicine with the
requisite level of care, skill and treatment when he failed to
order specific t:eatment for the drug overdose; when he failed to
order gastric lavage, charcoal and cathartic theraphy for Patient
#1.

2i. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.33l(l)(t), F_orida Statutes, in that he failed to practice
medicine with that level of care, skill and treatment which is
recognized tur a reasonably prudent similar physician as being
acceptable under similar conditions and circumstances.

CQUHI_IHQ

22. Petitioner re—alleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through twenty (20) as if fully set forth herein.

23. Subject did not document test results, treatment
rendered, consultations request or reports, and/or the transfer
of care to justify the course of treatment for Patient #1.

24. Based or the foregoing, Respondent has violated Section
‘458.33;(1)(m), Flcrida Statutes, formerly Section 458.33l(l)(n),
Florida Statutes, by failing to keep written medical records

justifying the course of treatment of the patient, including but

not limited to, patient histories, examination results, and test

results.

CQHET_IHBEB

25. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one

(1} and two (2) as if fully set forth herein.

————————

26. On December 31, 1987, Respondent's license to practice
medicine in the State of Florida expired. Said license
subsequently reverted to an inactive status, pursuant to Section
458.319(3), Florida Statutes.

27. From on or about January 1, 1988, to the present
Respondent continued to practice medicine in Florida while his
license was in an inactive status. Said practice was in
violation of Section 458.327(1)(a), Florida Statutes.

28. Based on the foregoing, Respondent is in violation of
Section 458.331(l)(x), Florida Statutes, in that he is guilty of
violating any provision of Chapter 458, a rule of the Board or
Department, or a lawful order of the Board or Department
previously entered in a disciplinary hearing or failing to comply

with a lawfully issued subpoena of the Department.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine to enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board
deems appropriate.

SIGNED this £1: day of NM, , 1990‘

LARRY GONZALEZ, Secretary

FILED

Department of Profess’one‘ Rem "* 1':
AGENCY CLERK

BY: STEPHANIE A. DANIEL

25/ Chief Medical Attorney
/Q__,__.--""'

CLERK ——-—-

DATEALLCLLH Q&JUQ‘L’

 

~¢

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Senior Attorney

Department of Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street

Suite 60

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792
(904) 488-0062

LGM/mkh
2/20/90

only those provisions of said probation) shall be tolled as
enumerated below and shall remain in a tolled status until
Respondent returns :0 active practice in the State of Florida.
ReSpondent must keep current residence and business addresses on
file with the Board. Respondent shall notify the Board within
ten (10) days of any changes of said addresses. Furthermore,
Respondent shall nonify the Board within ten (10) days in the
event that Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine in
Florida.
d. In the event that Respondent leaves the active practice
of medicine in this state for a period of thirty days or more,
the following provisions of the probation shall be tolled:
1. The time period of probation shall be tolled.
2. The provisions regarding supervision whether direct or
indirect by another physician, included in paragraphs
f through a below

3. The provisions regarding preparation of investigative
reports detailing compliance with this Order. See
paragraph j below.

e. In the event that Respondent leaves the active practice
of medicine for a period of one year or more, the Probation
Committee may require Respondent to appear before the Probation
Committee and demonstrate his ability to practice medicine with
skill and safety to patients prior to resuming the practice of
medicine in this State.

f. Respondent shall not practice except under the indirect

supervision of a physician fully licensed under Chapter 458 who

has been approved by the Board or its Probation Committee.
Absent provision for and compliance with the terms regarding
temporary approval of a monitoring physician, as provided below,
Respondent shall cease practice and not practice until the
Probation Committee or the Board approves a monitoring physician.
ReSpondent shall have the monitoring physician with Respondent at
the first probation appearance before the Probation Committee.
Prior to approval of the monitoring physician by the Committee,
the Respondent shali provide to the monitoring physician a copy
of the Administrative Complaint and Final Order filed in this
case. Failure of the Respondent or the monitoring physician to
appear at the scheduled Probation Committee meeting shall
constitute a violation of this Order. Prior to the approval of
the monitoring physician by the Committee, Respondent shall
submit to the Committee a current curriculum vitae and a
description of the current practice from the proposed monitoring

physician. Said materials shall be received by the Board office

no later than fourteen days before Respondent's first scheduled
probation appearance. The attached definition of a monitoring

physician is incorporated herein. The responsibilities of the

monitoring physician shall include:

(1) Submit quarterly reports, in
affidavit form, which shall include:

a. Brief statement of why physician is on probation.
b. Description of probationer's practice.
c. Brief statement of probationer's
compliance with terms of probation.
d. Brief description of probationer's
relationship with monitoring physician.
e. Detail any problems which may have arisen with

probationer.

Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that the
monitoring physician submits the required reports.

(2) Report to the Board any violations by the probationer
of Chapter 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, ard the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto.

g. The Board shall confer authority on the Chairman of the
Board's Probation Committee to temgorarily approve Respondent's
supervisory/monitorinq physician. In order to obtain this
temporary approvalt Respondent shall submit to the Chairman of
the Probation Committee the name and curriculum vitae 0f the
proposed supervisory/monitoring physician. This information
shall be furnished to the Chairman of the Probationer's Committee
by way of the Board of Medicine’s Executive Director, within 48
hours after Respondent receives the Final Order in this matter.
This information may be faxed to the Board of Medicine at (904)
487—9622 or may be sent by overnight mail or hand delivery to the
Board of Medicine at the Department of Professional Regulation,
1940 North Monroe Street, Suite 60r Tallahassee, Florida 32399—
0750. In order to provide time for Respondent's proposed
supervisory/monitoring physician to be approved or disapproved by
the Chairman of the Probation Committee, Respondent shall be
allowed to practice medicine while approval is being sought, but
only for a period Of five working days after Respondent receives
the Order. If Respondent's supervisory/monitoring physician has
not been approved during that time frame, then Respondent shall
cease practicing until such time as the supervisory/monitoring
physician is temporarily approved. In the event that the
proposed supervisory/monitoring physician is not approved, then

Respondent shall cease practicing immediately. Should

Respondent's supervisory/monitoring physician be approved, said

approval shall only remain in effect until the next meeting of

the Board or the Probation Committee. Absent said agprovalE

Resgpndent shall not Qractice medicine until a

 

 

monitoringZSUEervising Ehxsician is aggroved.

h. In view of the heed for ongoing and continuous
monitoring or supervision, Respondent shall also submit the
curriculum vitae and name of an alternate supervisory/monitoring
physician to be approved by the Board or its Probation Committee.
Such physician shall be licensed pursuant to Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, and shall have the same duties and responsibilities as
specified for Respondent‘s monitoring/supervising physician,
during those periods of time when Respondent's
monitoring/supervisory physician is temporarily unable to provide
supervision. Prior to practicing under the indirect supervision
of the alternate monitoring physician or the direct supervision
of the alternate supervisory physician, Respondent shall so
advise the Board in writing. Respondent shall further advise the
Board in writing of the period of time during which Respondent
shall practice under the supervision of the alternate
monitoring/supervisory physician. Respondent shall not practice
unless he is under the supetvision of either the approved
monitoring/supervisory physician or the approved alternate.

i. Respondent shall submit quarterly reports in affidavit
form, the contents of which shall be specified by the Board. The
reports shall include:

1) Brief statement of why physician is on probation.
2) Practice Location

{3) Describe current practice (type and composition)

(4) Brief statement of compliance with probation terms.

(5) Describe relationship with monitoring/supervisory
physician.

j. During this period of probation, semi—annual

investigative reports will be compiled by the Department of
Professional Regulation concerning Respondent's compliance with
the terms and conditions of probation and the rules and statutes
regulating the praccice of medicine.

k. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply with
the terms of the Order issued based on this proceeding. Such
costs include, but are not limited to, the cost of preparation of
investigative reports detailing compliance with the terms of this
Order, the cost of analysis of any blood or urine specimens
submitted pursuant to the Order entered as a result of this
proceeding, and administrative costs directly associated with
Respondent's probation. See Section 458.331(2), Florida
Statutes.

This order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department of Professional Regulation.

-<—
DONE AND ORDERED this 15 day of , 1992.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

P. ZACHARIAH, M.D.

      

 

ZACHARI
CHAIRMAN

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO JUDICIAL REVIEW

 

A PARTY WHO IS ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THIS FINAL ORDER IS ENTITLED
TO JUDICIAL REVIEW PURSUANT TO SECTION 120.68, FLORIDA STATUTES.
REVIEW PROCEEDINGS ARE GOVERNED BY THE FLORIDA RULES OF APPELLATE
PROCEDURE. SUCH PROCEEDINGS ARE COMMENCED BY FILING ONE COPY OF
A NOTICE OF APPEAL WITH THE AGENCY CLERK OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION AND A SECOND COPY, ACCOMPANIEE BY FILING
FEES PRESCRIBED BY LAW, WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL, FIRST
DlSTRICT, OR WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL IN THE APPELLATE
DISTRICT WHERE THE PARTY RESIDES. THE NOTICE OF APPEAL MUST BE
FILED WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF RENDITION OF THE ORDER TO BE
REVIEWED.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Gerald
Cooper, M.D., 2114 Owens Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32301 and
Robert Woolfork, Attorney at Law, 317 East Park Avenue,
Tallahassee, Florida 32301, by U.S. Mail to Diane Cleavinger,
Hearing Officer, Division of Administrative Hearings, The DeSoto
Building, 1230 Apalachee Parkway, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—
1550; and by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr.,
Chief Medical Attor1ey, Department of Professional Regulation,

1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792 at or

before 5:00 P.M., t1is ‘i

 

 

FebOrderS/CooperG

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL

REGULATION, ;
Petitioner, ;

vs. ; CASE NO. 90-2212
GERALD COOPER, M.D., ;
Respondent. ;
J

RECOMMENDED ORDER
Pursuant to notice, a formal hearing was held in this
matter before the Division of Administrative Hearings, by its
duly designated Hearing Officer, Diane Cleavinger, on June 25,
1991, in Tallahassee, Florida.
APPEARANCES
FOR PETETIONER: Francesca Small
Senior Attorney
Department of Professional Regulation
1940 N. Monroe Street, Suite 60
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792

FOR RESPONDENT: Gerald Cooper, Bro se,

STATEMENT OF THE ISSUES
Whether Respondent’s license to practice medicine
should be disciplined for alleged violations of Chapter 458,
Florida Statutes.
PRELIMINARY STATEMENT
On March 1, 1990, the Department filed an
Administrative Complaint against Petitioner, Gerald Cooper,
‘allegihg that his license to practice medicine should be

disciplined for several violations of Chapter 458, Florida

