.' I thartmjl L E D

of Professional Regu‘atiﬂn
AGENCY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGQEA N
BOARD OF MEDICI 0Q
0\/—/‘/
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
Petitioner, I DATE
DOAH CASE NUMBER: 90—06324

v. DPR CASE NUMBER: 89-11981
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0011768

 

CHARLES METZGER, M.D.,

Respondent .

/

FINAL ORDER
THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on August 3, 1991, in Palm
Beach, Florida, for consideration of a Stipulation (attached hereto
as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the above-styled
case. Upon consideration of the Stipulation, the documents

submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the parties, and

being otherwise advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulation as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the

Stipulation.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department. Aﬁ/

DONE AND ORDERED this g; day , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

ZACHARIAH" . ZACHARIAH, M._D—.
CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Charles E. Metzger,
M.D., c/o Mark Klingensmith, Esquire, Suite 300, 1615 Forum Place,
P.o. Box 024486, West Palm Beach, Florida 33402—4486 and by
interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical

Attorney, Department of Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre,

1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, at or

' w c __
before 5:00 P.M., this 57 '75! day of /M,¢44'\ , 1991.

//"‘K hf \ y
,w’i/E’ /-:€-‘€Z:J:\. .9 3:1?”ka .fp‘ 4?”?!
OR HY J. ngRCLOTH 4
Executive Director

iv. Brief statement of compliance \yith

probationary terms.

v. Describe relationship with monitoring
physician.
vi. Advise Board of any problems.
5. Respondent shall attend the course "Protecting

Your Medical Practice, Clinicial, Legal and Ethical Issues in
Prescribing Abusable Drugs", sponsored by the Florida Medical
Association and the University of South Florida, or a Board—
approved equivalent.

a. Respondent understands that during the course of
the probation, semiannual report shall be prepared by
investigators with the Department detailing Respondent's
compliance with the terms and conditions of this probation.
Respondent waives confidentiality of these reports as to the
Department only so that the Board may review these reports.

b. Respondent shall comply with all of the terms

and conditions of the Stipulation.

6. Respondent may prescribe Schedule II controlled
substances with the restrictions set forth below:

i. Respondent shall utilize sequentially

numbered triplicate prescriptions in the prescribing of

Schedule II controlled substances.

ii. Respondent shall immediately provide one
copy of each prescription of Schedule II controlled substances

to his monitoring physician.

iii. Respondent shall provide one copy of
each prescription for Schedule II controlled substances to the
Department‘s investigator within one month after issuing said
prescription.

7. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to
comply with the terms of the Final Order issued based on this
proceeding. Such Costs include, but are not limited to, the
cost of preparation of investigative reports detailing
compliance with the terms of this proceeding, the cost of
analysis of any blood or urine specimens submitted pursuant to
the Final Order entered as a result of this proceeding, and
administrative costs directly associated with Respondent‘s
probation. See Section 458.331(2), Florida Statutes.

8. It is expressly understood that this Stipulation is
subject to the approval of the Board and the Department. In
this regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing
paragraphs of the Stipulated Facts, stipulated Conclusions of
Law and Stipulated Disposition) shall have no force and efﬁect
unless a Final Order* is entered incorporating the terms of
this Stipulation, by the Board.

9. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the
meeting whereat this Stipulation is considered. Respondent,
in conjunction with the consideration of this Stipulation by
the Board, shall respond to questions under oath from the

Board, Board Staff or Department Staff.

l0

10. Should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement
made in furtherance of this Stipulation, by the Respondent
may be used as direct evidence against the Respondent in any
proceeding. However, such statements may be used by the
Petitioner for impeachment only.

11. Respondent and the Department fully understand that
this joint Stipulation and subsequent Final Order
incorporating same will in no way preclude additional
proceedings by the Board and/or the Department against the
Respondent for acts or admissions not specifically set forth
in the Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit "A“
herein.

12. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation,
Respondent expressly waives all further procedural steps, and
expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to
otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the joint
Stipulation of facts, conclusions of law and imposition of
discipline, and the Final Order of the Board incorporating
said Stipulation.

13. Upon the Board‘s adoption of this Stipulation, the
parties hereby agree that each party will bear his own
attorney's fees and costs resulting from prosecution and/or
defense of this proceeding. Respondent waives the right to
seek any attorney‘s fees or costs from the Department in
connection with this disciplinary proceeding.

14. The terms of this stipulation will have an effective
date, commencing September 1, 1991, or a later date determined

by the Board.

11

15. This Stipulation is executed by the Respondent for
the purpose of avoiding further administrative action with
respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes
the Board to review and examine all investigative file
materials concerning Respondent prior to or in conjunction
with consideration of the Stipulation. Furthermore, should
this joint Stipulation not be accepted by the Board, it is
agreed that presentation to and consideration of this
Stipulation and other documents and matters by the Board shall
not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or any of its
members from further participation, consideration or
resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED this :2 day of

1991.

 

,—:/’,Z:' é’l/Q: {2:12; :3/7Z/D
Charles Metzger, mg

 

Sworn to and subscribed
before me this =gﬂ day

of 3,7ng g , 1991
u,£g. (I £1»r4/4<

NOEARY PUBLIC

/
/

Q/ﬁy Commission Expires:

APPROVED this /7 day of g £35057? , 1991.
George Stuart
Secretayy //,

{44/ / ti“

Lrﬁy: Larry G. McPherson
Chief Medical
Attorney

.1. ., ,w...

 

 

42:”)

1154

12

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
CASE NO. 8911981
v.

CHARLES METZGER, M. D.,

Respondent.

/
ADMINISIBAIIEE_£QMBLAIHI

COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as “Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against Charles Metzger, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent,” and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulati g
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes, Chapter 455, Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been
issued license number ME 0011768. Respondent’s last known
address is 33 South East Eighth Street, Boca Raton, Florida
33432.

3. From on or about November 4, 1988, to on or about May
9, 1989, Respondent provided medical care and treatment to

Patient #1.

4. From on or about November 4, 1988, to on or about May
9, 1989, Respondent prescribed Dilaudid 4 mg. to Patient #1,
totalling about 2,052 tablets, or about 11.4 tablets per day.

5. Dilaudid is a “legend drug" as defined by Section
465.003(7), Florida Statutes, which contains hydromorphone, a
controlled substance listed in Schedule II of Chapter 893,
Florida Statutes.

6. On or about March 28, 1989, Respondent noted in his
medical records that he advised Patient #1 that Patient #1 was
abusing Dilaudid.

7. On or about April 25, 1989, Respondent in a letter to
Patient #1, states, ”I find it necessary to inform you that we
are withdrawing from further professional attendance to you as 1
am very uncomfortable with your utilization of drugs.“

8. On or about May 9, 1989, Respondent prescribed
Dilaudid to Patient #1, totalling about 157 tablets, with a note
to Patient #1 to decrease the amount taken.

9. From on or about November 4, 1988, to on or about
April 17, 1989, Respondent 5 medical records for Patient #1
include weight and blood pressure along with prescription
information, but fail to include any tests or follow—up on
Patient #1'5 complaints.

10. Respondent failed to stop prescribing Dilaudid to
Patient #1 after becoming aware of Patient #1‘5 drug abuse
problem.

11. Respondent failed to refer Patient #1 to an

appropriate treatment center.

QQHNIHQNE

12. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through eleven (11) as if fully set forth herein this Count
One.

13. Respondent prescribed, dispensed, administered, mixed,
or otherwise prepared a legend drug, including any controlled
substance, other than in the course of his professional practice.
in that Respondent excessively prescribed Dilaudid to Patient #1,
and continued to prescribe Dilaudid to Patient #1 after becoming
aware of Patient #l‘s drug abuse problem.

14. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.33l(l)(q), Florida Statutes, prescribing,
dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing a
legend drug, including any controlled substance, other than in
the course of the physician‘s professional practice. For the
purposes of this paragraph, it shall be legally presumed that
prescribing, dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise
preparing legend drugs, including all controlled substances,
inappropriately or in excessive or inappropriate quantities is
not in the best interest of the patient and is not in the course
of the physician's professional practice, without regard to his
intent.

CQUNI_IHQ

15. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one

(1) through eleven (11) and thirteen (13) as if fully set forth

herein this Count Two.

0)

l6. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that level
of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances, in that Respondent improperly
treated Patient #1 by excessively prescribing Dilaudid, faLled to
stop prescribing Dilaudid after becoming aware Of Patient #1'5
drug abuse problem, and failed to refer Patient #1 to an
appropriate treatment center.

17. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331(l)(t), Florida Statutes, by gross or
repeated malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with
that level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a
reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under
similar conditions and circumstances.

CQHNI_$HBEE

18. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through eleven (11), thirteen (13) and sixteen (16) as if
fully set forth herein this Count Three.

19. Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of Patient #1, in that
Respondent‘s records fail to include any tests or follow—up
information on Patient #l's complaints, and fail to justify the
inappropriate prescribing of Dilaudid to Patient #1.

20. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, by failing to
keep written medical records justifying the course of treatment

of the patient including, but not limited to, patient histori s;

examination results; test results; records of drugs prescribed,
dispensed, or administered; and reports of consultations and
hospitalizations.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

, J ‘
SIGNED this Hﬁkiay of 5ggg¢Mm , 1990.

Larry Gonzalez, Secre tary

QQH

By: Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

 

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson
Senior Attorney

Florida Bar No. 788643

Dept. of Professional Regulation D F I L E D
1940 N. Monroe Street, Ste. 60 emnm°”0fpmm$bnmRﬂwmﬁm1
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792 AGENCYCLERK

(($04) 488—0062

...“R7:G/ecs gmab

  

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

vs. DOAH CASE NO. 90—6324
DPR CASE NO. 89—11981

CHARLES METZGER, M.D.,

Respondent.

 

SIIPllLA’LIQN

CHARLES METZGER, M.D., the Respondent, and the Department of
Professional Regulation, referred to as Department, stipulate and
agree to the following joint Stipulation and to the entry of a
Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as Board,
incorporating this Stipulation and agreement in this matter.

SIIBHLAIED_EACIS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a
licensed physician in the State of Florida having been issued
license number ME 0011768.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules
enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the
Administrative Complaint is attached hereto and incorporated by
reference as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations

of fact contained in the Administrative Complaint attached hereto

as Exhibit A.

SElEULAIBD_CQHCLHSIQNS_QE_LAK

1. Respondent, in his capacity as a licensed physician,
admits that in such capacity he is suhject to the provisions of
Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of
the Department and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, constitute violations of
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative
Complaint.

SIIEHLAIED_DISEQSITIQN

1. Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters
455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated
pursuant thereto.

2. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in the
amount $1,500 against the Respondent. The fine shall be paid by
the Respondent to the Executive Director of the Board within 90
days of the imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand from the
Board of Medicine.

4. Effective on the date of the filing of the Final Order
incorporating the terms of this Stipulation, Respondent's license
to practice medicine shall be placed on probation for a period of
two (2) years. The terms and conditions of probation shall
include:

a. Respondent shall comply with all state and federal
statutes, rules and regulations pertaining to the practice of
medicine, including Chapters 455, 458, and 893, Florida Statutes,
and Rule 21M, Florida Administrative Code.

2

b. Respondent shall appear before the Board's
designated probationer's committee at the first meeting after
said probation_ commences, at the last meeting of the Board‘s
designated probationer's committee preceding termination of the
probation, semiannually, and at such other times as requested by
the committee. Respondent shall be noticed by the Board staff
of the date, time and place of the Board‘s Probationer‘s
Committee whereat Respondent's appearance is required. Failure of
Respondent to appear as requested or directed shall be considered
a violation of the terms of this Stipulation, and shall subject
the Respondent to disciplinary action.

c. In the event the Respondent leaves the State of
Florida for a period of thirty days or more or otherwise does not
engage in the active practice of medicine in the State of
Florida, then certain provisions of Respondent's probation (and
only those provisions of said probation) shall be tolled as
enumerated below and shall remain in a tolled status until
Respondent returns to active practice in the State of Florida.
Respondent must keep current residence and business addresses on
file with the Board. Respondent shall notify the Board within
ten (10) days of any changes of said addresses. Furthermore,
Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (10) days in the
event that Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine in
Florida.

d. In the event that Respondent leaves the active
practice of medicine in this state for a period of thirty days or

more, the following provisions of his probation shall be tolled:

i. The time period of probation shall be
tolled.

ii. The provisions regarding supervision,
whether direct or indirect by another physician, included in
paragraph 4(f) through 4(j) below.

iii. The provisions regarding preparation of
investigative reports detailing compliance with this
Stipulation. See paragraph 7 below.

e. In the event that Respondent leaves the active
practice of nedicine for a period of one year or more, the
Probationers' Committee may require Respondent to appear
before the Probationers' Committee and demonstrate his abiLity
to practice medicine with skill and safety to patients prior
to resuming the practice of medicine in this State.

f. Respondent shall not practice except under the
indirect supervision of a physician fully licensed under
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, approved by the Board's
Probationer‘s Committee. Absent compliance with the terms
regarding temporary approval of a monitoring physician set
forth in paragraphs 4(a) below, Respondent shall cease
practice and not practice until the Probationer's Committee
approves a supervising physician. Respondent shall have the
monitoring physician with him at his first probation
appearance before the Probationer's Committee. Prior to
approval of the monitoring physician by the committee, the
Respondent shall provide to the monitoring physician a copy of

the Administrative Complaint and Final Order filed in this

case. A failure of the Respondent or the monitoring physician
to appear at the scheduled probation committee meeting shall
constitute a Violation of the Board's Final Order. Prior to
the approval of the monitoring physician by the committee,
Respondent shall submit to the committee a current curriculum
vitae and description of the current practice from the
proposed monitoring physician. Said materials shall be
received in the Board office no later than fourteen days
before Respondent‘s first scheduled probation appearance. The
attached definition of a monitoring physicians is incorporated
herein. The responsibilities of the monitoring physician
shall include:

i. Respondent‘s monitoring physician shall
appear before the probationer's committee at the first
meeting of said committee following commencement of the
probation, and at such other times as directed by the
committee. It shall be Respondent‘s responsibility to ensure
the appearance of his monitoring physician as requested or
directed. Failure of the monitoring physician to appear as
requested or directed shall constitute a Violation of the
terms of this Stipulation and shall subject the physician to
disciplinary action.

ii. Respondent‘s monitoring physician shall

submit reports on a semiannual basis, in affidavit form, which

shall include:

a. Brief statement of why physician is on

probation.

b. Description of probationer's practice.

c. Brief statement of probationer‘s
compliance with terms of probation.

d. Brief description of probationer‘s
relationship with monitoring physician.

e. Detail any problems which may have
arisen with probationer.
Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that the
monitoring physician submits the required reports.

iii. Be available for consultation with
Respondent whenever necessary, at a frequency of at least once
per month.

iv. Report to the Board any violations by
the probationer of Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and
the rules promulgated pursuant thereto.

v. Receive and review copies of all
controlled substance prescriptions.

vi. Maintain contact with Respondent on a
frequency of at least once per month. In the event that the
monitor is not contacted by Respondent on a frequency of at
least once per month, then the monitoring physician shall
immediately report this fact to the Board, in writing.

9. The Board shall confer authority on the Chairman
of the Board‘s Probationer‘s Committee to temporarily approve
Respondent‘s monitoring physician. In order to obtain this
temporary approval, Respondent shall submit to the Chairman of

the Probationer's Committee the name and curriculum vitae of

the proposed monitoring physician. This information shall be
furnished to the Chairman of the Probationer's Committee at
the time that this Stipulation is approved by the Board. Said
approval shall only remain in effect until the next meeting of
the Probationer's Committee. If the propseod monitoring
physician is not approved, Respondent shall immediately cease
practice. WWWM

h. In view of the need for ongoing and continuous
monitoring, Respondent may also submit the curriculum vitae
and name Of an alternate monitoring physician who shall be
approved by the Probationer's Committee. Such physician shall
be licensed pursuant to Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and
shall have the same duties and responsibilities as specified
for Respondent's monitoring physician during those periods of
time when Respondent’s monitoring physician is temporarily
unable to provide supervision. Prior to practicing under the
indirect supervision of the alternate monitoring physician.
Respondent shall so aﬁvise the Board in writing. Respondent
shall further advise the Board in writing of the period of
time during which Respondent shall practice under the indirect
supervision of the alternate monitoring physician. Respondent
shall not practice unless he is under the supervision of
either the approved monitoring physician or the

approved alternate.

i. In the event that the Respondent‘s monitoring
physician is unable or unwilling to fulfill his
responsibilities as a monitoring physician, as described
above, then the Respondent shall immediately advise the Board
of this fact. Respondent shall further submit to the Chairman
for the Board‘s Probationer's Committee the name of a
temporary monitoring physician for approval. Respondent shall
not practice pending approval Of this temporary monitoring
physician by the Chairman Of the Probationer‘s Committee.
Furthermore, Respondent shall make arrangements with his
temporary monitoring physician to appear before the
Probationer's Committee at its next regularly scheduled
meeting, for approval of the supervising physician by the
Committee. Respondent shall only practice under the auspice
Of the temporary monitoring physician (approved by the
Chairman) until the next regularly scheduled meeting of hte
Probationer‘s Committee whereat the issue of the Committee‘s
approval of the Respondent's new monitoring physician shall be
addressed.

j. Respondent shall submit semiannual reports, in
affidavit form, the contents of which shall be specified by

the Board. The reports shall include:

i. Brief statement of why physician is on
probation.

ii. Description of practice location.

iii. Describe current practice (type and

composition).

