Pf”

' - FI'LED

Department of Protesslonal Regulaﬂon
AGENCY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL Rscuﬂ 'r on 0
BOARD 01“ mm: M

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL

REGULATION,
om WM

Petitioner,

 

v, DPR CASE NUMBER: 89—09108
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0016786
TEOTIMO D. BONZON, M.D.,

Respondent.
/

FINAL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant

1'1,
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on December 6, 1991, in h;
Miami, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement (attached H
hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the above—

a;

styled case. The spelling of Respondent's first name was corrected
on the record at the meeting, to wit, Teotimo. Furthermore, on the
record at the hearing, the parties clarified that Paragraph 4.a.
of the Stipulated Disposition provides that Respondent's license
to practice medicine is suspended and remains suspended until such
time as he appears before the Board to request reinstatement. At
that time, the Board may, as a condition precedent, require that
the proof of his current ability to practice with skill and safety
to patient include proof that he has completed an entire ACGME
accredited residency program in a specialty field selected by the
Respondent or some other appropriate proof of retraihing under
supervision. Upon consideration 0! the Consent Agreement, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the

parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises,

 

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Pursuant to Paragraph 2 of the
Stipulated Disposition, Respondent's fine is $100. Accordingly,
the parties shall adhere to and abide by all of the terms and
conditions of the Consent Agreement.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Department.

K‘
DONE AND ORDERED this 47 day I , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

W
z‘ACHARI P. z CHARIAH, M.D.

CHAIRMAN

 

W

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Teotimo D. Bonzon,
M.D., 6314 North Leader Street, Chicago, Illinois 60646 and Jerry
Foster, Esquire, 227 East Virginia Street, Tallahassee, Florida
32301 end by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief
Medical Attorney, Department of Professional Regulation, Northwood
Centre, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—
0792, at or before 5:00 P.M., this . day of

. 1991.

DOROTHY J. FAIRCLOTH
Executive Director

7‘7W*w*_m ..

shall make arrangements with his temporary monitor/supervisor to
appear before the Probation Committee at its next regularly
scheduled meeting, for consideration of the monitor/supervisor by
the Committee. Respondent shall only practice under the auspices
of the temporary monitor/supervisor (approved by the Chairman)
until the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Probation
Committee whereat the issue of the Committee's approval of the
< Respondent's new moniter/superyisor shell be addressed.
IV. CONTINUITY OF PRACTICE

A. TOLLING égO§ISIONS. In the event the
Respondent leaves the State of Florida for a period of thirty days
or more or otherwise does not engage in the active practice of
medicine in the State of Florida, then certain provisions of
Respondent's probation (and only thoee provisions of the probation)
shall be tolled as enumerated below and shall remain in a tolled
status until Respondent returns to active practice in the State of
Florida.

1. The time period of probation shall be
tolled.

2. The provisions regarding supervision
whether direct or indirect by another physician, and required
reports from the monitor/supervisor shall be tolled.

3. The provisions regarding preparation of
investigative reports detailing compliance with this Stipulation
shall be tolled.

B. Apngﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ. Respondent must keep current

._.-

 

1

la,“ JM'

‘ 7&7 «9.33:;

‘gﬁ‘t,

"73!"? ‘ .t

,vwe—vwemw .t-.<v.....ﬁwT .

 

residence and business addresses on file with the Board.
Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (10) days of any
changes of said addresses. Furthermore, Respondent shall notify
the Board within ten (10) days in the event that Respondent leaves
the active practice of medicine in Florida.
C. ACTIVE PRACTICE. In the event that

Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine for a period of
_one year or more, the ?robation Comhittee may require Respondent
'.;to Tepﬁear ‘before the: ﬁrebatién 'Committee: and demonstrate his:r
abilit§ to practice medicine with ékili ahd safety to patients
prior to resuming the practice of medicine in this State.

V. BOARD ADDRESS. Unless otherwise directed by
the Board office, all reports, correspondence and inquiries shall
be sent to: Board of Medicine,~ 1940 North Monroe Street,

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, Attn: Final Order Compliance

Officer.

10

 

r,”

Wm“ w—vwaxwwr ’"PW' "7"”‘1!’

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

PETITIONER,
VS. CASE NO. 8909108
TEOTIME D. BONZON, M.D.

RESPONDENT. .
. , / , .\756

W

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
TEOTIME D. BONZON, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent,"
and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with
regulating the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30,
Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458,
Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been
issued license number ME 0016786. Respondent’s last known address

is 6314 North Leader Street, Chicago, Illinois, 60646.

 

3. From on or about September 18, 1987, to dn or about

April 22, 1988, Respondent treated Patient #1.

7 _ _——_.—.-— *m—q-‘o~——u,_—~

4. On or about September 18, 1987, Patient #1
presented to Respondent’s Hortice at 5917 Beach Boulevard,
Jacksonville, Florida, complaining of a right inguinal hernia.

5. Subsequent to taking Patient #l’s history and
performing a physical exam, Respondent diagnosed Patient #1 as
having bilateral reducible inguinal hernias. Respondent
recommended repair of the two (2) hernias.

6. On or about October 12, 1987, Respondent performed
ih his xoffice a rightt ihguinal: herniotrhaphy '65 Patient #1.
Respondent used a 2-0 black silk suture to repair the floor of the
inguinal canal.

7. On or about February 2, 1988, Patient #1 presented
to Respondent’s office complaining of a swelling on his right side.
Respondent diagnosed a recurrent ridht hernia.

8. On or about May, 1988, Patient #1 was diagnosed
with a recurrent right inguinal hernia at the University Hospital
General Surgery Clinic in Jacksonville, Florida.

9. On or about June 3, 1988, Dr. Michael Bryant
performed the repair of Patient #l’s right inguinal hernia. During
surgery, Dr. Bryant recorded that he did not find any previous
dissection of the oblique muscle, the first layer of the abdominal
wall and no black silk suture was found as described in
Respondent's medical records for Patient #1. Dr. Bryant concluded
that Respondent failed to perform a complete inguinal hernia

repair.

10. On or about October 31, 1989, a pathologist, Dr.
Tony Tullot, wrote a letter in which he states that his sections
demonstrate benign fibro tissue without a mesothelial lining. This
lining tissue is required to confirm that the tissue represents a
hernia sac.

11. At the time of the second surgery, Dr. Bryant
should have seen evidence of the previous herniorrhaphy, such as
a dissection below the external oblique muscle and the non-
absothahle black silk sutareg. * I

COUNT ONE

12. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs
one (1) through eleven (11), as if fully set forth herein this
Count One.

13. Respondent failed t6 practice medicine with that
level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a
reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under
similar conditions and circumstances, in that Respondent performed
an incomplete right inguinal hernia.

14. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, by gross or repeated malpractice
or the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances.

COU TV

15. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs

one (1) through eleven (11), and thirteen (13), as if fully set

forth herein this Count Two.

 

@323 s

16. Respondent made or filed a report which the
licensee knew to be false when he recorded in his medical records
that he had performed a complete right inguinal hernia repair with
the use of 2-0 black silk sutures to repair the inguinal canal, and
in fact Respondent did not perform a complete hernia repair.

17. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(h), Florida Statutes, by making or filing a report with
the licensee knows to be false, intentionally or negligently
failingetq fiie A report or recorh required byistate or federal
law, wilifnlly impeding or ohstructing such filing or inducing
another person to do so. Such reports or records shall include
only those which are signed in the capacity as a licensed
physician.

COUNT THﬁEE

18. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs
one (1) through eleven (11), thirteen (13), and sixteen (16), as
if fully set forth herein this Count Three.

19. Respondent made a deceptive, untrue, or fraudulent
misrepresentation when he recorded in his medical records that he
had performed a complete right inguinal hernia repair with the use
of 2—0 black silk sutures to repair the inguinal canal, and in fact
Respondent did not perform a complete hernia repair.

20. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(k), Florida Statutes, by making deceptive, untrue, or
fraudulent representations in or related to the practice of
medicine or employing a trick or scheme in the practice of

medicine.

 

 

“HEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the
Board of Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the
following penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s
license, restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of
an administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

. , A SIGNED this /j/(day of {?Z& , 1991.
i - 7-91.2: I. {“1 :y Y 3'.- ' '- > > _ H Geerge Stuarﬂ ' '
1 ___ 2.. 4 3 Secretary

      

 

 

cPherson, Jr.
Chief Medical Attorney

‘ F i L E D b

Larry G. McPherson, Jr_ . angmmmn ,
‘ . (men! of Professmn

Chlef Medlcal Attorney Dem! AGENC(CURK

Department of Professional 9

Regulation " . ﬁ
1940 North Monroe Street 0 0/

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750
—______—'__________.__
CJR/ tc CLERK

Y,

e;’

PCP: May 4, 1991 'KLQ'Q\ F‘-
Vitale, Ashkar and Skinner DATE

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

.-_.. 5

 

"HEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the
Board of Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the
following penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s
license, restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of
an administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement Aof the
Respondent on probation, Iand/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate .

V SIGNED this /j'/(day of 5???? , 1991.

 

‘ f
,,w . . 5
vGeorgeStuarV) . P"
Secretary ‘ j' 7, E

 

:13:

   
      

cPherson, Jr.
Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT: ‘ F ‘ L E D ﬁx
Larry G. McPherson, Jr. (P utessional Regmaﬁon
Chief Medical Attorney DePaY‘men‘AcEEPICY CLERK

Department of Professional

Regulation ( . #64
1940 North Monroe Street 6“) V’ L,

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750

CJR/tc I5
PCP: May 4, 1991 E ’ \LQ'Q\ ‘
Vitale, Ashkar and Skinner DAT '

_._.. 5

 

. "53'; 5“

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

V. DPR case NO. 89-09108
DORE Case NO. 91-4756

Tnowzua BONZON, u.n.,

Respondent.

/ ,
CONBEﬁT.AGREEMENT

Teotime Bonzon, M.D., referred to as the "Respondent", and
the Department of Professional Regulation, referred to as
"Department", stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and
to the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred
to as "Board", incorporating the stipulated Facts and stipulated
Disposition in this matter.

§ILEQLAEEIL£BQI§

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed
physician in the State of Florida having been issued license number
ME 0016786.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules enacted
pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative
Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of

fact contained in the Administrative Complaint.

_w_nm__..<t A 4— M...— vvv W— wyﬁ~__r—.

.cp—v

I" 5:1

ED 0N S S LA

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458,
Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department and the
Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute violations
of Chapter 458, Floridé Statutes; hs alleéed 1h the Administrative
Complaint. I

STIPULATED DISPOSITION

1. FUTURE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the future
violate Chapters 455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto. ‘

2. £132; The Board may impose an administrative fine up to
the amount of $2,000.00 against the Respondent if the Board deems
a fine appropriate. The fine shall be paid by the Respondent to
the Executive Director of the Board within 90 days of its
imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. REPRIMAND. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand from
the Board of Medicine.

4. BESTBICTIONS: Respondent's license to practice medicine
shall be subjected to the same restrictions as enumerated in 923
y, Ieggjme H: Bgnzgn, M.Q., Case #0057042; in that:

a. Respondent's license to practice medicine is

Suspended. The Board recommends that the future Board ruling on

 

NIL

any request for reinstatement require Respondent to establish his
then current ability to practice medicine with skill and safety
to patients by proof that he has completed an entire ACGME
accredited residency program in a specialty field selected by
Respondent or some other appropriate proof of retraining under
supervision;

b. Upon reinstatement, Respondent's license to practice
medicine in the State of Florida is placed on PROBATION for a
period of five years, subjett to such terms and conditions as set
rby the Board at that time.

5. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject
to the approval of the Board and the Department. In this regarding
the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs) shall
have no force and effect unless_ a Final Order is entered
incorporating the terms of this Agreement, by the Board.

6. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply with
the terms of the Final Order iSSued based on this Stipulation.
Such costs include, but are not limited to, the cost of preparation
of investigative reports detailing compliance with the terms of
this Stipulation, and the Board's administrative costs directly
associated with Respondent's probation. See Section 458.331(2),
Florida Statutes.

7. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting
of the Board where this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in
conjunction with the consideration of this Agreement by the Board,

shall respond to questions under oath from the Board, Board Staff

 

.. W? woﬂﬁtv

..,..‘,.,..,..i ‘

..‘... ”w..- ~- W-..‘

.W.._(. .,_.....,._ .___._ .i_, ”v

or Department Staff.

8. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by the Respondent may be used as
direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding; however,
such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment
purposes.

9. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this
Vjoint Agreement and subsequent Einal order incorporating same will
in no way pteclude additional ptoceedings by the Board and/or the
Department [against the Respondent for acts 5r omissions not

specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as

 

Exhibit "A" herein and/or Case Nos. 90—14808 and 90-08262.

10. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent E
expressly waives all further procedutal steps, and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or

contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the

Board incorporating said Agreement.

 

11. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will bear his own attorney's fees and
costs 'resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's fees or costs
from the Department or Board of Medicine in connection with this
matter.

13. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the

purpose or avoiding further administrative action with respect to

this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to

 

f.
i

review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration or the
Agreement. Furthermore, should this Consent Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by
the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or
any of its members from further participation, consideration or
resoiut1on of these proceeiings., _‘ ‘ “€?_C7/.

, A, ,- _ ,
SIGNED this 1’7 day of ,. , , 1991.

/« /
Il&”/;V“v i) ,Vvvtvx/
Teotime D. Bonzon, M.D.
Sworn to and subscribed

before.me this wﬁwkday
of HMO “/40 , 1991. .

/

Myer; (L %2§M

No ARY PUBLI

My Commission Expires:
APPROVED this &2 day of $73,851. 1991.

George Stuart
Secretary

   
   
        

  

"OFHCML SEAL"
RUTH C. GRAMM
Notary Firhllc, Slam 0! mm».
My Comm v; 31 Expires 5—12-94

   

    

y: . McPherso
Chief Attorney
Medical Section

 

 

 

$3 *3
PROVISIONS REGARDING HONITORING/SUPERVISING PHYSICIANS
Provisions governing physicians ordered to work under
supervision of monitoring or supervising physician.
1- DEELHEIIQH§=

A. INDIRECT SUPERVISION is supervision by a
monitoring physician (monitor) whose responsibilities are set by
the Board. Indirect supervision does not require that the monitor
practice on the same premises as the Respondent, however, the
monitor shall practice within a reasonable'geegbaphic proximity to
Respondent, which shall be within 20 miles unless otherwise
provided by the Board and shall be readily available for
consultation. The monitor shall be Board—certified in the
Respondent's specialty area, unless otherwise provided by the
Board. _

B. DIRECT SUPERVISION is supervision by a
supervising physician (supervisor) whose responsibilities are set
by the Board. Direct supervision requires that the supervisor and
Respondent work in the same office. The supervising physician
shall be board—certified in the Respondent's specialty area, unless
otherwise provided by the Board.

C. PROBATION COMMITTEE or "committee" are members
of the Board of Medicine designated by the Chairman of the Board
to serve as the Probation Committee. .

II. S N AR TE S.

A. The Respondent shall not practice medicine

without a monitor/supervisor unleSS otherwise ordered by the Board.

7—“..— .-m ”\w 0.. .9w......— H-«_.tﬂ.

pm
.4 («’3
‘r

B. The monitor/supervisor must be a licensee under
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, in good standing and without
restriction or limitation on his license. In addition, the Board
or Committee may reject any proposed monitor/supervisor on the
basis that he has previously been subject to any disciplinary
action against his medical license in this or any other
jurisdiction, is currently under investigation, or is the subject
of a pending disciplinary action. The monitor/supervisor must be
aetively engaged in the same or sihilar specialty area unless
otherwise provided by the Boerd or Committee. The Board or
Committee may also reject any proposed monitor/supervisor for good
cause shown.

III. MECHANISM FOR APPROVAL OF MONITORJSUPERVISOR:

A. TEMPORARY APPROVAh. The Board confers authority
on the Chairman of the Board's Probation Committee to temporarily
approve Respondent's monitor/supervisor. To obtain this temporary
approval, Respondent shall submit to the Chairman of the Probation
Committee the name and curriculum vitae of the proposed
monitor/supervisor at the time this agreement is considered by the
Board. Once a Final Order adopting this Agreement is filed,
Respondent shall not practice medicine without an approved
monitor/supervisor. Temporary approval shall only remain in effect
until the next meeting of the Probation Committee.

3- EQBHAL_AEEBQYAL-

1. Respondent shall have the

monitor/supervisor with him at his first probation appearance

v E5

before the Probation Committee. Prior to consideration of the
monitor/supervisor by the Committee, the Respondent shall provide
to the monitor/supervisor a copy of the Administrative Complaint
and Final Order in this case. Respondent shall submit a current
curriculum vitae and description of the current practice from the
propose monitor/supervisor to the Board office no later than
fourteen days before the Respondent's first scheduled probation
appearance.
I 2. Respehdentis Tineniter/superviser shall
appear, before the Probation Cohﬁitteetsat fits fitst meeting
following commencement of the probation, and at such other times
as directed by the Committee. It shall be Respondent's
responsibility to ensure that the appearance of his
monitor/supervisor as requested or» directed. Failure of the
monitor/supervisor to appear as requested or directed shall
constitute a violation of the terms of this Stipulation and shall
subject the Respondent to disciplinary action.

C. CHANGE IN MONITORlSUPERVISOB. In the event
that Respondent’s monitor/supervisor is unable or unwilling to
fulfill his responsibilities as a monitor/supervisor as described
above, then the Respondent shall immediately advise the Board of
this fact. Respondent shall immediately submit to the Chairman of
the Board's Probation Committee, the name of a .temporary
monitor/supervisor for consideration. Respondent shall not

practice pending approval of this temporary monitor/supervisor by

the Chairman of the Probation Committee. Furthermore, Respondent

 

~'.:*,~Wy-:mr-;-,:n-‘_'_ ‘ .

v-ﬁW‘.

_.,._.w~n. A

