FILED

Department of Prmessrcna‘ Regutanon
ﬂ.‘ {RK
STATE OF FLORIDA AL-NLYC t

szm'msm- 0? saorzsmromm. 3263mm .
scam OF MEDICIW WVQC’M'

DEPAR‘E‘MENT OF PROFESSIONAL

REGULATION, , CLERK W
Pet1ticaer, DATE

vs. DPR CASE NUMBER: 89-10?67

LICENSE NUMBER: KB 0010762
FITZHUGK X. MULLINS, Hub”,

Respcndent.
______________*“___m_________/

FINAL ORDEJ;

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.57(3),Florida Statutes, on February 1,
1991, in Tampa, Florida, for consideration of a Stipulation
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in
the above-styled case. Upon consideration of the Stipulation, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises, the Board
rejected the Stipulation preposeé and offered an amendment at the
hearing, which amendment was accepted without objection by the
parties.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulation
as submitted he and hereby is approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference with the fcllowing additions and
clarifications:

1. Respondent shall pay an administrative fine in the

amount 0f $500 to the Executive Director within 30 days of the date

this Final order is filed.

2. The introductory phrase of paragraph 2 of the
stipulated Disposition, i.e. ”within one year of the entry of the
Final Order in this case" is, in fact, intended to be_ the
introductory language of paragraph 3 and such a correction is
hereby made.

3. Paragraph 3 o: the stipulated Disposition is further
amended to state that the Board hereby authorizes the Probation
Committee to evaluate any continuing medical education submitted
as a "Board-approved equivalent" of the course otherwise specified
and to determine its equivalence.

Accordingly, the parties shall adhere to and abide by the.
terms and conditions of the Stipulation as amended.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department of Professional Regulation.

DONE AND ORDERED this L3).Ark day of 3M ,

BOARD OF MEDICINE

K“ *
[MW/k

ZACHARIAH Pf ZACHARIAH, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

1991.

not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or any of its

members from further participation, consideration or

resolution of. these proceedings.

3
SIGNED this 23 day of \I/Lw , 1990.

 

Sworn to and subscribed
bef '

of 41741

M4

NOTAR PUBL c

      

Nomry Public. State at Large. KY.
My commission gxpires Mar. 26. 1992

APPROVED thistmday of 7 . a2

Larry Gonzalez

Secretary w

By: Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical
Attorney

My Commission Expires:

, 1990.

CERTIEIQAEE OP 8ERVECE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Fitzhuqh X.
Mullins, M.D., 508 Medical Towers Building, Lauisville, Kentucky
40202—2070, and by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherscm, Jrk ,
Attorney at: Law, Department of Professional Regulation, Northwood
Centre, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—

0792, at or before 5:00 p.m., this 151’»: day of ‘ r p
1991. “f . .

I
r ,-.

jg? Véif’wn> yﬁ’.

1‘1

ié/gffmmék: \ {W ﬁg,
DOROTHY J. AIRCLOTH _

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPAR?MENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

CASE NO. 8910767
v.

FITZHUGH X. MULLINS, M.D.,

Respondent.
~——————~.__~..__,._m_______“_/
AQMINISEEAEI¥E_CQMELAINI '

COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against FITZHUGH X. MULLINS, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida

tatutes, Chapter 455, Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State Of Florida, having been
issued license number ME 0010752. Respondent's last known
addresg 13 508 Medical Tower; Building, Louisville, Kentucky
40202w2070.

3. On at about Aprii 15, 1987, the Kentucky award Of
M&dira: Licﬁnsure ordereﬁ'ﬁeggmnd@nt‘g Kmntucky licenﬁe LO
piaﬁiicﬂ medicing to ba r&airiateé tn the extent that Ee$§mndann

1
ghaii nan b6 allmwed t0

.5...
Eu

 

"pQﬂEQ, administer‘ a:

‘U

otherwise professionally utilize those medications designated as

Schedule II and II-N by KRS 218A. Additionaily, Respondent's
license was placed on probation.

1

4. On or about May 7, 1987, the aforementioned Order was

filed with the Kentucky State Board of Medical Licensure.

5. Respondent had his license to practice medicine
revoked, suspended, or otherwise acted against, in that the
Kentucky State Board of Medical Licensure filed an Order that
restricted Respondent's license with respect to the brescribing
of controlled substances, and placed Respondent's license on
brobation.

5. Based on the.preceding allegations, Respondént violated
Section 458.33l(l)(b}, Florida Statutes, having a license or the
authority to practice medicine revoked, suspended; or otherwise
acted against, including the denial of licensure, by the
licensing authority of'any jurisdiction, including its agencies
or subdivisions. The licensing authority's acceptance of a
physician's relinquishment of a license, stipulation, consent

order, or other settlement, offered in response to or in

physician’s license.

WHEREFURE, Petiticnet respectfully requests the Board of
Mgdicina enter an Orﬂer impwsing Gna 0: more Ct Che foiiﬁwing
ganalties: revocatian er susgﬁnaion 0f the Raspondent‘a lxcgnse,
restriczion 0f the Resgonéﬁnt'ﬂ practice; mecsitiqn of an

1
administrative fine. issuance CE 3 reprimand, §iacemant G5 the

Respandent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED thisél#34day of CDC1¥> 1990.

mw—MM—__ '

Larry Gonzalez, Secretary

Skaélﬂ

E}: Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT: L F I L E. i)
rewartmem cf Frofess'onal Regmaﬂon

Larry G. McPherson AGENCYCLERK

Senior Attorney

Florida Bar No. 788643 :37 ‘

Dept. of Professional Regulation ‘ . (ED7Q,.,/

1940 N. Monroe Street,'5te. 60 d“

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792 ,“E"K

 

(904) 488~0062 ii; ,2:2((~.§ii>
CJR/bg/tb GATE

10/22/90

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

vs. DPR CASE NO. 89—10767
FITZHUGH MULLINS, M.D.,

Respondent‘

1
r

._.___,.w..._._......__~.._..- ‘..._~ .-.__. --. ,...‘.__r

SIIEELAELQE '

Fitzhugh Mullins, M.D., the Respondent, and the Department
Of Professional Regulation, referred to as Department, stipulate
and agree to the fo;lowing joint Stipulation and to the entry of
a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as Board,
incorycrating this Stipulation and agreement in this matter.

SEIEULAEED_EACIS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a
licensed physician in the State of Florida having been issued
license number ME 0010762.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Camplaint
filed by the Department and prapley served upon Respondmnt with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rulés
enacted pursuant theretw. A true and cwrrwct capy 0f the
Administrative Complaint :5 attached hexeto 3nd ENC“ g"

xqﬁezencw as Exhibit A.

5

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the

allegations 0f fact contained in the Administrative Complaint

attached hereto as Exhibit A.

SIIEHLAIﬁﬂwﬁﬂﬂCLAEHﬁM§_QE_LAﬂ

1. Respondent, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, admits that in such capacity he is subject to the
provisions of Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the
jurisdiction of the Department and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, constitute violations of
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the
Administrative Complaint.

52.13qu

1. Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters
455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated
pursuant thereto.

2. Within one year of the entry of the Final Order in
this casé, the Respondent shall appear before the Board at the
time this Stipulétion is considered and demonstrate that his
Eigenge :0 practice medicine in Kentucky is free and clear of
any and all enaumbrances.

,
3

Raspondent shall attgnd the cuurse "Protecting Your

 

Hwﬁiwal PrautLC@, Fli: Legal and Ethical issues in
Prwsﬁaibing Abusabie ﬁrugs”é Sponsored by the Florida Medical
Asguviutinn had thm Univarﬁiay Of South Floriéa, Or a Board~

reign iiwufi 135111} Vt?! 1431115. .
i

4. It is expressly understood that this Stipulation is

subject to the approval of the Board and the Department. In
this regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing
paragraphs of the Stipulated Facts, Stiéulated Conclusions of
Law and Stipulated Disposition) shall have no force and effect
unless a Final Order is entered incorporating the terms of
this Stipulation, by the Board.

5. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the
meeting whereat this Stipulation is considered. Respondent,
in conjunction with the consideration of this Stipulation by

the Board, shall respond to questions under oath from the

Board, Board Staff or Department Staff.

6. Should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement
made in furtherance of this Stipulation, by the Respondent
may be used as direct evidence against the Respondent in any

proceeding. However, such statements may be used by the

Petitioner for impeachment only.

7. Respondent and the Department fully understand that
this joint Stipulation and subsequent Final Order
incorporating same will in no way preciude additional

proceedings by the Board and/or the Department against the
Respondent for acts or admissions not specifically set forth
in the Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit "A"
herein.

8. Upon the Boaré’s adaptiwn Of this Stipulation,
Respondent expressly waives all further procedural steps, and

?

expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review at or to

otherwise challenge or contest the vaiidity of the joint
Stipulation of facts, conclusions of law and imposition of
discipline, and the Final Order qf the Board incorporating
said Stipulation.

9. Upon the Board‘s adoptidn of this Stipulation, the
parties hereby agree that each party will hear his own
attorney's fees and costs resulting from prosecution and/or
defense of this proceeding. Respondent waives the right to
seek any attorney‘s fees or costs from the Department in
connection with this disciplinary proceeding.

10. This Stipulation is executed by the Respondent for
the purpose of avoiding further administrative action with
reépect to this cause. In this regard, Resgendent authorizes
the Board to review and examine all investigative file
materials concerning Respondent prior to or in conjunction
,with consideration of the Stipulation. Furthermore, should
this joint Stipulation not be accepted by the Board, it is
agreed that presentation to and consideration of this

Stipulation and other documents and matters by the Board shall'

