FliLED

DeparnnentofPromsyonalReQUMHon
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULAfﬁﬁﬁCYCLERK

 

BOARD OF MEDICINE €IJ<::)
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL ( ?w 6L20Q9q_,,g-’
REGULATION,
CLERK
Petitioner, !i!,,gggfil
‘ DATE ,
v. DPR CASE NUMBER: 89—01230
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0024148

DOUGLAS w. SODERDAHL, M.D.,

Respondent.

_#_,_u_____u__k._*,_____¥__*__/

FINAL ORDER

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on December 7, 1991, in
Miami, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement (attached
hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the above;
styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent Agreement, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly! the parties shall

A

adhere to and abide by all of the terms andrtonditions of the

Consent Agreement.

This Final Order takes effect upon tiling with the Clerk of

the Department. KT
DONE AND ORDERED this ’7 day é;48C£ulb«// , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

I I
?W,_

ZACHARIAH P. ZACHARIAH, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Douglas W. Soderdahi}
M.D., 1411 Aupupu Street, Kailua, Hawaii 96734 and by interoffi¢e
delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney,
Department of Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North

Monroe Street, Tallahassee, F10 ida 32399—0792, at or before 5:00

,-;.-\
P.M., this // /’ day of , _ , 1991.
DORETHY J. FAIRCLOTH '

Executive Director

h.1n m:

inn]

l1

‘MJH nu;n huLm Lth

l..-..n_‘

.nq . ‘J.

H.

h(J-t In

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

  
    
 
   

SIGNED this 52.3 day of

George
Secret

   

. MC? erson, Jr.
edical Attorney

ILED

DEDJthent of Professional Regulation

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

 

Larry McPherson, Jr. AGENCYCLERK
Senior Attorney (’ //:)
Bar #788643 r—ﬂ—muﬁ” 6 )‘ﬂ
Department of Professional ‘5 Ewg’ “54 *ijﬂmw,,»/””
Regulation 6E7< i
1940 North Monroe Street ‘“'”
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750 ﬂ _r2 ——
DAT:
LAQP/HJS/tb

pcp: Novembﬁr 6 1991

7

Burt, Wertheimer and Campbell
Hanline

, 1991.

S'I‘ATE OF FLORIDA :1-551; :- ;
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGUIATION Q A
[SOARIJ OF MEDICINE J M -7 AH

IJEPAHTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
RIEGUIATIGN,

Petitioner,
vs. DPR CASE NO. 89-01230

Dt’)UGLﬁ-S W. SODERDAHL, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

EONSE T A(‘:IEE1§§1EN.,{_

.-

 

DOUGLAS W. SODERIJAHL, 3.1.0., referred to as the "Respondent", and
the Department of Professional Regulation, referred to as “Department", stipulate ‘zt-nd
agree to the following Agreement and to the entry of a Final Order Of the Board of

Medicine, teferred to as "Board", incorporating the Stipulated Facts and Stipulated

Disposition in this matter.

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed physician in the
State of Florida having been issued license number ME 0024148.

2. Respondent was charged by art Adminietrative Complaint filed by the
Department and properly served upon Respondent with violations of Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, and the rules enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the
Administrative Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of fact contained in

the Administrative Complaint.

ST. __1 P U [A’ELEEMJL‘H ﬂﬂ;QF_L_AJE
1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as 11 licensed physician, he is subject
to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the
Department and the Board.
2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the Administrative Complaint,
if proven, would constitute violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the
Administrative Complaint.

STIPULATED n,t_sPe-srt‘1tw

 

'1. F itﬂﬁE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapter

 

45

U’t

, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated pursuant thereto. .

2. At least s'my (60) days prior to the Board meeting at which this Agreemettt
is to be considered, Respondent shall cause to be forwarded a certified affidavit from ihe
rehabilitation program director at Kahi Mohaia. This affidavit shall include an
assessment of Respondent's condition upon entering the program, Respondent's progress
in the program, and if applicable, any aftercare recommendations and Respondent’s
compliance.

3. At least sixty (60) days prior to the Board meeting at which this Agreetttent
is to be considered Respondent shall demonstrate that his license to practice medicine
in Hawaii is free and clear of any restrictions by causing to be forwarded by the Hawaii
Board of Medical Examiners an affidavit detailing Respondent's disciplinary history in
Hawaii. This Agreement shall be considered by the Florida Board Of Medicine only if
Respondent's Hawaii medical license is free and clear of any restrictions.

4. Respondent shall not practice medicine in Florida until Respondent

undergoes an inpatient evaluation by the Florida Physicians Recovery Network.

2

Respondent shall execute a release for the Physicians Recovery Network to authorize the
Network to release information and medical records (including psychiatric records and
records relating to treatment for drug dependency and alcoholism) t0 the Board of
Medicine. Respondent shall then persomlly appear before the Florida Board of
Medicine and the Board may impose reasonable restrictions on the Respondent‘s right
to practice medicine in the State Of Florida or they may lift the restriction and ailow the
Respondent to practice medicine with an unencumbered license.

5. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject to the approval of
the Board and the Department. In this regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the
foregoing paragraphs of the Stipulated Facts, Stipulated Conclusions of Law altnd
Stipulated Disposition) shall have no force and effect unless a Final Order is enteted
incorporating the terms of this Agreement, by the Board.

6. Respondent is not required to appear before the Board at the meeting of
the Board where this Agreement is considered.

7. Shouid this Agreement be rejected, no satutement made in furtherance of
this Agreement by the Respondent may be used as direct evidence against the
Respondent in any proceeding. However, such statements may be used by the Petitioner
for impeachment purgoses.

8. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this joint Agreement
and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will in no way preclude additional
proceedings by the Board attd/or the Department against tte Respondent for acts or

omissions not specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit

"A" herein.

9)

“m

1...k.'._'t; :-

. it

.‘u. .

H. n .

I...u_i-_..l

‘lm‘hl‘

u

9. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent expressly waives
all further procedural steps, and expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review 0f or
to otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the joint Agreement of Facts,
Conclusions of Law and imposition of discipline; and the Final Order of the Board
incorporating said Agreement.

10. Upon the Board‘s adoption of this Agreement the parties hereby agree that
each party will hear his own attorney's fees and costs resulting from prosecution and/or
defense of this proceeding. Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney‘s fees or
costs from the Department in connection with this disciplinary proceeding.

11. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the purpose of avoigling
further administrative action with respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent
authorizes the Board to review and examine all investigative file materials concerhing
Respondent, as well as any factual statements provided by Respondent or Respmdent’s
counsel, prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the Agreement. Furthermore
should this joint Agreement not be accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presen-
tation t0 and consideration of this Agreement and Other documents and matters by the
Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or any of its members from
further participation, consideration or resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED this 3. day of Oc'lﬂ‘fl'ééu §1991.
W l

/
— s_‘a .a

D‘GUULAS w. SODERUAHL Mt).

 

 

Sworn to and Subscribed
before me this 1"“de
Of ‘Cﬁj‘x’bc‘, ‘ 1991.

Minna“. (f- I H
NO'I'ARY PUBLIC c!
My Commission Expires: /),.7 /‘T V

LAG/avs

APPROVED this

3/

 

day of

L.--

LJI

/f‘ -
L/Jwﬁgaﬂ ,1991.

 

 

George Stuart

 

Secrexary
...--“\
J/ /)
w x
/ - /
’ . xf/l l“
ji/ﬂi'jv LiF’WV/X'j ’% ———-{—_i'7
By: Lar’ry G. McPherson, Jr. ‘

Chief Medical Attorney
Medical Section

LL

1.5-?“

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

PETITIONER,
vs. CASE NO. 89-01230
DOUGLAS w. SODERDAHL, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

 

ADKINISTRATIVE COMPLEINT

 

 

 

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as “Petitioner,” and files this

Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against

DOUGLAS H. SODERDAHL, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
”Respondent,” and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida

Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, aving been issued
license number ME 0024148. Respondent’s last known address is 1411

Aupupu Street, Kailua, Hawaii 96734.

3. On or about October 24, 1986, Respondent, a Colonel in
the United States Army, Medical Corps, was practicing as a

Urologist at the Tripler Army Medical Center in Hawaii.

4. On or about October 24, 1986, approximately 2,400 Valium
tablets and approximately 985 Dalmane tablets were discovered in
Respondent’s sole possession in a filing cabinet in Respondent’s
office.

r

J. Respondent’s possession of the Valium and Dalmane was

unauthorized.

6. Valium is a ”legend drug” as defined by Florida Statutes,

Seetion 465.003(7)(1989), which oontains diazepam, a controlled
substance listed in Schedule IV of Florida Statutes, Section 893
(1989}.
7. Dalmane is a "legend drug” as defined by Florida Statues,
Section 465.003(7)(1989), which contains Elurazepam, a controlled
substance listed in schedule IV of Florida Statutes, Section 553
(1989).

8. Respondent admitted that he self-prescribed Valium for
”angiolysis (stress management),” but he denied that he ever sold
or dispensed controlled substances inappropriately.

9. On or about October 27, 1986, Respondent’s Clinical
privileges at Tripler Army Medical Center were suspended by the
U.S. Army.

10. The United States Army, Medical Corps, is the licensing
entity for those service personnel practicing medicine within the
Army. 'As such the United States Army has the authority to

discipline those persons who create an unsafe environment for or

are incompetent to ensure the public’s health, safety and welfare.

AA.- -._iu_.

I—uruL—n—l

L- L..;...n

ll. The Respondent has had his license or the authority to
practice medicine revoked, suspended, or otherwise acted against,
including the denial of licensure, by the licensing authority of
any jurisdiction, including its agencies or subdivisions in that
the Department Of the Army suggended Respondent’s Clinical
privileges for approximately four (4) months for the self—
prescribing and inappropriate use of controlled substances.

12. Based on the foregoing, Respondent is in violation of
Section 458.331(l)(b), by having a license or the authority to
practice medicine revoked, suspended, or otherwise acted against,
including the denial of licensure, by the licensing authority Ff
any jurisdiction, including its agencies or subdivisions. The
licensing authority’s acceptance of a physician’s relinquishmeht
of a license, stipulation, consent order, or other settlement,
offered in response to or in anticipation of the filing Of
administrative charges against the physician’s license, shall be
construed as action against the physician’s license.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the
Board of bmdicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the
tollowing penalties: revocation or suspensimn of the Respondent’s
license, restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of

an administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

