FILED

Department of Professional Regulation
AG
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULAT

BOARD OF MEDICINE

 
 
 
 

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL CLEM

REGULATION , m
DA r:

Petitioner,
DOAH CASE NUMBER: 90—06561
v. ?DPR CASE NUMBER: 89—05917
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0046137

GEORGE GINALIS, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to section l20.57(3), Florida Statutes, on August 3,
1991, in Palm Beach, Florida, for consideration of a Stipulation
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties
in the above—styled case. Upon consideration of the Stipulation,
the documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulation as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the
Stipulation.

with regard to paragraph 4k of the Stipulation, the Board
directed the Respondent to obtain Category I Continuing Medical
Education courses in the area of office obstetrics and
gynecology.

This Final Ordex takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Department.

DONE AND ORDERED this 3 M/day ééé; Z , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

@W/l

ZACHARIAH P. ZACHARIAH, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to George Ginalis, M.D.,
c/o Mai—Ling E. Castillo, Esquire, 9th Floor, Concord B1dg., 66
West Flagler Street, Miami, Florida 33130 and by interoffice
delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney,
Department of Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North

Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, at or before 5:00

. v1 ——
P.M., this day of , l991r

E37 1‘ f' .
:K\ .1 .5
OROTHY J. [PﬂIRCLOTH

Executive Director

 

 

Respondent‘s compliance with the terms and conditions of this probation. Respondent
waives confidentiality of these reports (IS to the Department only so that the Board may
review these reports.

In. Respondent shall comply with 11” 0f the terms and co tditions 0f the
Stiptilutiont

5. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply with the terms of the Final
Order issued based on this Stipulation. Such costs include, but are not limited to, the
cost Of preparation of investigative reports detailing compliance with the terms of this
Stipulation. See Section 458.331(2), Florida Statutes.

6. It is expressly understood that this Stipulation is subject to the approval of the
Board and the Department. In this regard the foregoing paragraphs (and only the
foregoing paragraphs of the Stipulated Facts, Stipulated Conclusions of Law and
Stipulated Disposition) shall have no force and effect unless a Final Order is entered
incorporating the terms of this Stipulation, by the Board.

7. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting whereut this
Stipulation is considered. Respondent, in conjunction with the consideration of this
Stipulation by the Board, shall respond to questions under oath from the Board, Board
Staff or Department Staff.

8. Should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement made in furtherance of this
Stipulation by the Respondent may be used :is direct evidence against the Respondent
in any proceeding. However, such statements; may be used by the Petitioner for

impeachment purposes.

9. Respondent and the Department fully understand thztt this joint Stipulation
and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will in no wzty preclee additional
proceedings by the Board and/or the Department against the Respondent for acts Or
admissions not specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit
”A" herein‘

10. Upon the Board‘s adoption of this Stipulation, Respondent expressly waives
all further procedural steps, and expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or
to otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the joint Stipulation of facts, conclusions
of law and imposition of discipline, and the Final Order of the Board incorporating said
Stipulation.

11. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation, the parties hereby agree that
each party will beat his own attorney's fees and costs resulting from prosecution ttnd/or
defense of this proceeding. Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's
fees or costs from the Department in connection with this disciplinary ptoceeding.

12. This Stipulation is executed by the Respondent for the purpose of avoiding
further administrative action with respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent
authorizes the Board to review and examine Ltll investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the Stipulation.
Furthermore, should this joint Stipulation not be accepted by the Board, it is agreed that
presentation to and consideration of this Stipulation and other documents and matters
by the Board shall not unfairly 0r illegally prejudice the Board or any of its members

from further participation, consideration or resolution of these proceedings.

10

SIGNED this i day Of

  

 

GEORGEi GINALES, MD.

Sworn to and subscribed
before me thisx3_ day

o‘r'g,0_£/_Z_C 1991.
NOTAR UBLIC
My Commission Expires:

NOTARY “SELIC SYME OF FLORIDA
HY CMFXSSIO’J EXP. MY 25,!992
EUIDCD THRU GEEERAL H13. UID.

APPROVED this c901 day of WV , 1991.

 

George Stuart
Secretary

 

Chief Attorney

W Medical Section
Revised: 2/8@.

11

PROVISIONS REGARDING MONITOR]NG/SUI’ERVISING PHYSICIANS

Provisions governing physicians ordered to work under supervision of
monitoring and supervising physician.

1. DEFINITIONS:

Indirect supervision is supervision by a monitoring physician whose
responsibilities are set by the Board. Indirect Supervision does not require that the
monitor practice on the same premises as the Respondent, however, the monitor shall
practice within a reasonable geographic proximity to Respondent, which shall be within
20 miles unless otherwise provided by the Board and shall be readily available for
consultation. The monitor shall be Board-certified in the same specialty area in which
Respondent practices unless otherwise provided by the Board.

Direct supervision is supervision by :1 supervising physician. Direct
supervision requires that the supervisor and Respondent work on the szttne premises.
Specific responsibilities are set by the Board. The supervising physician shall be board-
certified in the same specialty area in which Respondent practices, unless otherwise
provided by the Board.

II. Provisions governing all supervised or monitored physicians:

21. The Respondent shull not practice without a supervisor/monitor
unless otherwise ordered by the Board.

b. The supervisor/monitor must be a licensee under Chapter 458,
Florida Statutes, in good standing and without restriction or limitation on his license.
In addition, the Board or Committee may reject any proposed supervisor/ntonitor 0n the

basis that he has previously been subject to any disciplinaty action against his medical

l2

license in [his or any othcrjurisdiction. The supervisor/monitor must be actively engaged
in the same or similar specialty area unless otherwise provided by the Board or
Comminee. The Board or Comminee may also reject any proposed supérvisor/monitor

for good cause shown.

13

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

CASE NO. 8905917
v.

GEORGE GINALIS, M.D.,

 

Respondent.
/
ADElElSIRKEDﬂLCQERLALRI

COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as ”Petitioner,” and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against George Ginalis, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
“Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes, Chapter 455, Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been
issued license number ME 0046137. Respondent‘s last known
address is 1 Al Michailidi, Thessaloiki, Greece 54640.

3. From on or about May 1, 1987, to on or about May 16,
1987, Respondent provided medical care and treatment to Patient
#1.

4. On or about May 1, 1987, Respondent attempted to
perform an abortion on Patient #1, who was seven (7) weeks

pregnant.

5. Following the abortion, Respondent failed to perform a
pathological exam of the products of conception to confirm a
successful abortion.

6. On or about May 8, 1987, Patient #1 presented to
Respondent complaining of itching and vaginal discharge.

7. Respondent treated Patient #1 with a prescription for
Motrin and Monistat.

8. Respondent started Patient #1 on birth Control pills.

9. Respondent failed to ascertain whether Patient #1 was
pregnant before starting Patient #1 on birth control pills.

10. On or about May 16, 1987, Patient #1 presented to
Respondent complaining of inflammation.

11. Respondent treated Patient #1 with a prescription for
Mycelex.

12. On or about July 7, 1987, Patient #1 presented to
another physician who performed an examination and peLvic
ultrasound on Patient #1.

13. The results of said examination and pelvic ultrasound
confirmed that Patient #1 was fourteen and a half (14.5) to
fifteen and a half (15.5) weeks pregnant.

14. On or about December 18, 1987, Patient #1 delivered a
full term baby.

CQHMLJEE

15. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one

(1) through fourteen (14) as if fully set forth herein this Count

One.

16. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that level
of care, skill, and treatment which a reasonably prudent similar
physician recognizes as acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances in that Respondent failed to perform a pathological
exam of Patient #1‘s products of conception to confirm a
successful abortion; and to ascertain whether Patient #1 was
pregnant before starting Patient #1 on birth control pills.

17. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331(l)(t), Florida Statutes, in that
Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or the
failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill, and
treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditionS and
circumstances.

gm [\1 EWQ

18. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through fourteen (14) and paragraph sixteen (16) as if fully
set forth herein this Count Two.

19. Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of Patient #1 including, but
not limited to, the following: Respondent‘s records cf Patient
#1 failed to justify Respondent's failure to perform a
pathological exam of the products of conception to confirm a
successful abortion; and to ascertain whether Patient #1 was
pregnant before starting Patient #1 on birth control pills.

20. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent

violated Section 458.331(l)(m), Florida Statutes, in that

Respondent failed to keep written medical records justifying the
course of treatment of the patient including, but not limited to,

patient histories; examination results; test results.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board Of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction Of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

; 0
SIGNED this \S/H‘Hay of ﬂ-Mnxww, 1990.

 

Larry Gonzalez, Secretary

Mw

 

: Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPAR'I‘L WENT:

 

Hment of Profession?! Regulation

Larry G. McPherson AGENCYCLERK

Senior Attorney

Florida Bar No. 788643

Dept. of Professional Regulation €57 “Q

1940 N. Monroe Street, Ste. 60 )Q._—4
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792 CLEW(____________

(904) 488—0062
CJR/AMS/ecs DA“ M;

    
 

STATE OF FLORIDA -, ,.
DIVISICN OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS k' w

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

v. DOAH CASE NO. 90—6561
DPR CASE NO. 8905917

GEORGE GINALES, MD,
Respondent.
./
STIPUIATION

GEORGE GINALES, MD” "Respondent“, and the Department of Professional
Regulation, referred to as "Department“, stipulate and agree to the following joint
Stipulation and to the entry of :1 Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as
Board, incorporating this Stipulation and the agreement in this matter.

STII’ULATEJMFLS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was :1 licensed physician in the State
of Florida having been issued license number ME 0046137.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint filed by the
Department and properly served upon Respondent with violations of Chapter 458,F10ridzt
Statutes, and the rules enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the
Administrative Complaint is .mttched hereto and incorporated by reference as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of fact contained in the

Administrative Complaint 3121(2th hereto as Exhibit A.

STIPULATED CONC‘IJJSIONS OF LAW

1. Respondent. in his capacity us a licensed physician, admits that ii such capacity
he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the
jurisdiction of the Department and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the Administrative Complaint, if
proven. constitute violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the
Administrative Complaint.

STIPULATED DISPOSITm

1. Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters 455, 458 and 893, Florida
Statutes, or the rules promulgated pursuant thereto.

2. The Board shall impose 2m administrative fine in the amount of $3,000.00
against the Respondent. The fine shall be paid by the Respondent to the Executive
Director of the Board within 180 days of its imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand from the Board of Medicine.

4. Upon return to this State, Florida, Respondent shall appear before the Board
and demonstrate his ability to practice medicine with care, skill and safety to patients
prior to resuming the practice of medicine in this State. Effective on the date of the
filing of the Final Order incorporating the terms of this Stipulation, Respondent's license
to practice medicine shall be placed on probation for a period of one year. The terms
and conditions of probation shall include:

21. Respondent shall comply with all state and federal statutes, rules and
regulations pertaining to the practice of medicine, including Chapters 455, 458, and 893,

Florida Statutes, and Rule Chapter 21M, Florida Administrative Code.

b. Respondent shall appear before the Board's designated probationer's
committee at the first meeting after said probation commences, at the last meeting of
the Board's designated probationer's committee preceding termination of the probation,
semittnnttally, 21nd at such other times as requested by the Board's probationer's
committee. Respondent shall be noticed by the Board staff of the dztte, time and place
of the Board's Probationer's Committee meeting> whereat Respondent's appearance is
required. Failure of Respondent to appear as requested or directed shall be considered
a violation of the terms of this Stipulation, and shall subject the Respondent to
disciplinary action.

c. In the event the Respondent leaves the State of Florida for a period Of
thirty days or more or otherwise does not engage in the active practice of medicine in
the State of Florida, then certain provisions of Respondent's probation (tmd only those
provisions of the probation) shalt be tolled us enumerated below and shall remain in a
tolled status and shall remain in a tolled status until Respondent returns to active
practice in the State of Florida. Respondent must keep current residence and business
addresses on file with the Board. Respondent shztll notify the Board within ten (10) days
of any changes of said addresses. Furthermore, Respondent shall notify the Board within
ten (10) days in the event that Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine in
Florida.

(1. In the event thztt Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine in
this state for a period of thirty days or more, the following provisions of his probation

shall be tolled:

i. The time period of probation shall be tolled.

ii. The provisions regarding supervision whether direct or indirect
by another physician, included in paragraphs 4(f) below.

iii. The provisions regarding preparation of investigative reports
detailing compliance with this stipuiation shah be toiled. See paragraphs 4(1) below.

e. In the event that Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine for
a period Of one year or more, the Probationers’ Committee may require Respondent to
appear before the Probationers‘ Committee and demonstrate his abiIiLy to practice
medicine with skill and safety to patients prior to resuming the practice of medicine in
this State.
f. Respondent shall not practice except under the indirect supervision of

:1 physician fully licensed under Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, approved by the Board‘s
Probatioher‘s Committee. Absent compliance with the terms regardiwg temporary
approval of a supervising physician set forth in paragraph g below, Respondent shall
cease practice and not practice until the Probationer's Committee approves 21 Supervising
physician. Respondent shall have the monitoring physician with him at his
first probation appearance before the Probationer’s Committee. Prior to approval of the
monitoring physician by the committee, the Respondent shall provide to the monitoring
physician :1 copy of the Administrative Complaint and Final Order filed in this case.
A failure of the Respondent or his monitoring physician to appear at the scheduled
probation meeting shall constitute a violation of the Board's Final Order. Prior to the
approval of the monitoring physician by the committee, Respondent shall submit to the
committee a current curriculum vitae and description of the current practice from the
proposed monitoring physician. Said materials shall be received in the Board office no

4

later than fourteen dztys before the Respondent's first scheduled probation appearance.
The attached definition of a monitoring physician is incorporated herein. The
responsibilities of a monitoringy physician shall include:

i. Respondent‘s nwnitoring physician shall appear before the
probzttioner's committee at the first meeting of said committee following commencement
of the probation, and at such other times as directed by the committee, It shall be
Respondent's responsibility to ensure the Ltppeztmnce of his monitoring physician as
requested or directed. Failure of the monitoring physician to appear as requested or
directed shztll constitute Ll violation of the terms of this Stipulation and shall subject the
Respondent to disciplinary action.

ii. Respondent's monitoring physician shall submit reports on a
quarterly basis (choose one), in affidavit form‘ which shall include:

:1. Brief statement of why Respondent is on probation.

b, Description of Respondent's practice.

c. Brief statement of Respondent's compliance with terms of
probation.

(1. Brief description of Respondent‘s relationship with
monitoring physician.

6. Detail any problems which may have arisen with the
Respondent.
Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that the monitoring physician submits the
required reports.

iii‘ Be ztvztihtble for consultation with Respondent whenever
necessary, :11 :1 frequency of (It least once per week.

5

iv. Review twenty-f‘ive (25) percent of Respondent's patient records
on a random basis at least once every month, for the purpose of ascennining whether
or not Respondent is practicing medicine with acceptable levels of care. In order to
comply with this responsibility of random review, the monitoring physician shall go to
Respondent's office once every month. At that time, the monitoring physician shall be
reSponsible for making the random selection of the records to be reviewed by the
monitoring physician.

v. Review all of Respondent‘s patient records for
patients scheduled for an abortion.

vi. Consult with Respondent on all cases involving
patients scheduled for 2m abortion, For the purposes of this Stipulation, the scope of
consultation shnli be as follows: reviewing repmts, x-ruys, medical records, and pathology
reports to assist in the determination of whether there has been appropriate test and
treatment.

vii. Report to the Board any violations by the probationer of
Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Stztnttes‘ and the rules promulgated pursuant thereto.

viii. Mziintuin contact with Respondent on a frequency of at least
once per week. In the event thztt the monitor is not contacted by Ret;pondent on a
frequency of zit least one per week, then the monitoring physician shall immediately
report this fact to the Board, in writing.

g. The Boztrd shall confer authority on the Chairman of the Board's
Probationcr's Committee to temporarily approve Respondent's monitoring physician. In
order to obtain this temporary approval, Respondent shall submit to the Chairman of the
Probationer‘s Committee the name and curriculum vitae of the proposed monitoring

6

physician. This information shall be furnished to the Chairman of the Probationer's
Committee at the time that this Stipulation is approved by the Board. Said approval
shail only remain in effect until the next meeting of the Probationer's Committee. If the
proposed monitoring physician is not approved, Respondent shall immediately cease
practice. Absent said RMH‘OVQL Respondent shall not practice medicine until a
m—onitoriniphvsicinn is approved by the Board's Probationer's Committee.

h. In view of the need for ongoing and continuous monitoring or
supervision, Respondent may also submit the curriculum vitae of an alternate monitoring
physician who shall be approved by the Board's Probationer's Committee. Such physician
shall be licensed pursuant to Chapter 438‘ Florida Statutes, and shall have the same
duties and responsibilities as specified for Respondent's monitoring physician, during those
periods of time when Respondent‘s monitoring physician is temporarily unable to provide
supervision. Prior to practicing under the indirect supervision of the alternate monitoring
physician, Respondent shall so advise the Board in writing. Respondent. shall further
adVise the Board in writing of the period of time during which Respondent shall practice
under the indirect supervision of the alternate monitoring physician. Respondent shall
not practice unless he is under the supervision of either the approved monitoring
physician or the approved alternate.

i. In the event that the Respondent's monitoring physician is unable or
unwilling to fulfill his responsibilities 215 it monitoring physician, as described above, then
the Respondent shall immediately tldViSC the Board of this fact. Respondent shall further
submit to the Chairman for the Board's Probationer's Committee the name of a
temporary monitoring physician for approval. Respondent shall not practice pending
approval of this temporary monitoring physician by the Chairman of the Probationer's

7

Committee. Furthermore, Respondent shall mttke arrangements with his temporary
monitoring physician to appear before the Probationer‘s Committee at its next regularly
scheduled meeting, for approval of the monitoring physician by the Committee.
Respondent shalt only practice under the auspices of the temporary monitoring physician
(approved by the Chairman) until the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
Probzttioner‘s Committee whereat the issue of the Committee's approval of the
Respondent‘s new monitoring physician shttll be addressed.
j. Respondent shall submit quttttetiy reports, in affidavit form, the contents
of which shall be specified by the Board. The reports shall include:
i, Brief statement of why Respondent is on probation.
ii. Description of practice location.
iii. Describe current practice (type and composition).
w Brief statement Of compliance with probationary :erms.
v. Describe relationship with monitoring physician.
vi, Advise Board of any problems.
k. Respondent shall attend 75 hours of Category I Continuing Medical
Education courses per year. The Subject matter of the Continuing Medical Education will
be as directed by the Board. Respondent shztll submit a written plan to Probationers'
Committee for approval prior to completion of sztid courses. These hours shall be in
addition to those hours required for renewal of licensurei Unless otherwise approved by
the Board or the chairman of the Probationer's Committee, said continuing education
courses shall consist of a formal live lecture format.
1. Respnndent understands that during the course of the probation,
quarterly reports shall be prepared by investigators with the Department detailing

8

