 

HLED

Department of Professional Regulation

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATquEpUTy CL ERK
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL DATE ___i__ ’/é"'€_3__ .__

REGULATION,
Petitioner,

—vs— DPR CASE NUMBER: 89-08835

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0042940
JUAN A. IBANEZ, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on April 3,
1993, in Plantation, Florida, for consideration of a Consent
Agreement (attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the
parties in the above—styled case. Upon consideration of the
Consent Agreement, the documents submitted in support thereof,
the arguments of the parties, and being otherwise advised in the
premises, the Board amended the Consent Agreement proposed, which
amendment was accepted without objection by the parties.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and hereby is approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein with the following amendments:

1. Paragraph 4 of the Stipulated Disposition is amended to
provide that the subject area of the CME shall be management of
diabetes.

2. Paragraph 5 of the stipulated Disposition is amended to

provide that Respondent shall provide a written plan for

Probationer‘s Committee for approval prior to performance of said

community service.

Accordingly, the parties shall adhere to and abide by the
terms and conditions of the Consent Agreement as amended.
This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department of Professional Regulation.

DONE AND ORDERED this 5 day Of (géﬂ’/ , 1993.

 

   

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a '- and correct copy of the

foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Juan A.
Ibanez, M.D., 320 First Street South, Winter Haven, Florida
33880—3501, C. Howard Hunter, Esquire, Melkus & Hunter, 410 Ware
Boulevard, Suite 1101, Tampa, Florida 33619 and by interoffice
delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney,

Department of Professional Regulation, 1940 North Monroe street,

Tallahassee, Flor da 32399—0792, at or before 5:00 P.M., this
M m ' !
L/L day of “J 1993.

 

 

AprilOrders 93

 

* ..:.;.- NHDq r‘LIJ _

physician under similar conditions and circumstances in that
Réspondent failed to do the following: . diligently examine,
properly diagnosed, or effectively treat Patient #1 on his initial
visit and failed to immediately ra-evaluate Patient #1 upon
learning of this Patient's very high blood glucose.

17. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated

Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida statutes, by gross or repeated

malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that level of
care, skill, and treatment which 13 reéognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances.

CQQNI_TKQ

18. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through fourteen (14), and sixteen (16), as if fully set forth
herein this count Two.

19. Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying his course of treatment or the patient in that
Respondent recorded only sketchy notes and lists no findings other
than those from his abdominal exam and adenopathy evaluation of
Patient #1.

20. Based on the preceding allegation, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, by failing to keep written
medical records justifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination

results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or

administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations.

Hﬁuu r Ur;

Medicine enter an order imposing ona or.more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s license,
restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an

administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate .

SIGNED this d2 day of ‘ , 1992.
George St art,

rry . eraon,
Chief Medical Attorney

 
   
     

  

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:
Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

chief Medical Attorney bePar’men: of pro, .
Department of Professional Regulation AGENCY CLE K sumo”

1940 North Monroe street (a
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750 <::::::>K&:::) .

Florida Bar #783643 [14 Q
CJR/HRB/tb CLER °\._.-—-v—-'
PCP: February 17, 1992 K \
McEwan and Kaiser

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

vs. CASE NO.: 89—8835

JUAN A. IBANEZ, M.D.,

Respondent.

 

CONSENT AGREEMENT

JUAN A. IBANEZ, M.D., referred to as the "Respondent," and the
Department of Professional Regulation, referred to as "Department",
stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and to the entry of
a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as "Board",
incorporating the stipulated Facts and stipulated Disposition in
this matter.

STIPULATED FACTS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed
physician in the State of Florida having been issued license number
ME 0042940.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules enacted
pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative
Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A. A true and correct copy

of Respondent's answer to said Administrative Complaint is attached

hereto as Exhibit B.
STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. Respondent admits that, in his Capacity as a licensed
physician, he is subject to the provisions 6f Chapter 455 and 458,
Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department and the
Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute violations of
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative
Complaint.

STI PULATED DISPOS ITION

1. FUTURE CONDUCT. Respondent has not violated and shall
not in the future violate Chapters 455, 458 and 893, Florida
Statutes, or the rules promulgated pursuant thereto.

2. FINE. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in

 

the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) against the
Respondent. The fine shall be paid by the Respondent to the
Executive Director of the Board within ninety (90) days of its
imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. LETTER OF CONCERN. The Respondent shall receive a Letter
of Concern from the Board of Medicine.

4. CONTINUING MEDICAL EDUCATION. Respondent shall attend‘
twenty (20) hours of Category I Continuing Medical Education
courses in the field of internal medicine within one (1) year from

the date of the Final Order of the Board adopting this Consent

Agreement. These hours are in addition to those required for

renewal.

5. COMMUNITY SERVICE. Respondent shall perform twenty (20)
hours of free medical services to indigent patients within ene (1)
year from the date of the Final Order of the Board adopting this
Consent Agreement. Respondent shall report said community service
by letter to the Board within one (1) year of the Final Order
adopting this Consent Agreement.

6. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject
to the approval of the Board and the Department. In this regard
the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs) shall
have no force and effect unless a Final Order is entered
incorporating the terms of this Agreement, by the Board.

7. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting

of the Board where this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in
conjunction with the consideration of this Agreement by the Board,
shall respond to questions under oath from the Board, Board Staff
or Department Staff.

8. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtheranee of this Agreement by the Respondent, or pursuant to
Paragraph 7 above, may be used against the Respondent in any
proceeding for any purpose.

9. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this
joint Agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will
in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board and/or the
Department against the Respondent for acts or omissions not

specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as

Exhibit "A" herein. However, it is recognized and agreed that no
further proceedings shall be brought against Respondent by the
Department or the Board as a result of' Respondent's sets or
-omissions in the treatment of Patient #1 referred to in the
Administrative Complaint.

10. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps, and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Agreement.

11. Upon the Board‘s adoption of this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will bear his own attorney's fees and
costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's fees or costs
from the Department in connection with this matter.

12. This agreement is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the
Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by‘

the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or

any of its members from further participation, consideration or

resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED this 226 day of ' , 1993.

 
 
  

 

fpondent)
/
Sworn to and subscribed

NOTARY PUBLIC. STATE OF FLORIDA.

r I. I“ s. 1594-
mv comIIssmN E§F133f¢3Nnawan=éa:

MY commission expires: ammo “W "W" W
APPROVED this 5 day Of

1993.

 

George St

   
    

rry McPher
Chief Attorney

FLORIDA SHORT-FOFIM INDIVIDUAL ACKNOWLEDGMENT (F.S. 695.25) M.Sm

§Wwﬂﬂﬂ”xf/yﬂﬁﬁﬂﬂﬁﬁﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬁﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ‘ﬁ” .zxzyx/‘xr ”ﬂﬁﬁ—Iy/rﬂﬂﬂ J.V‘

. 3%
STATE OF FLORI A The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me thisiQ-LK § .
(Date)
COUNTYOF éolié by l A Liana 313 N.

who is Eersonaliy known to me

;

 

 

(Name of person acknowledging)

or who has produced
(Ty of identification)

as identification and who did (did not) take an oath

Q/00‘M'ﬁrlﬁiary Public, Commission Ncmcc—OU/i3

(Signature)

(SEAL ABOVE) Q me 5 L \ Q L 0058— (Name of Notary typed, printed or stamped)

. ATTENTION NOTARY: Although the iniormalion vequesied below Is OPTIONAL iI could prevenl braudulem E>Iattf7=ment 01 this certificate to unaulnonzed document.

mggggggggﬁo Tmeorrypeomowmem mgss-Wt-‘N

TO THE DOCUMENT Number of Pages 5 Dam of Document / 7 93
DESCRIBED AT RIGHT: .
SIgner(s) Other than Named Above

«‘WWL

 

    

 

I'

    

@195“ NATIONAL NOTARY ASSOCIATIONa - 349k“ Thomasville Rd.. #215 - TailahasseeA FL 32308-3437

vn“ .4 .01”. A_._,; ...-...4~..r._1.“_~_. _. .x...‘ .. .__ .\_,.w4_‘ ._,.- .,_v, v-v-vu.‘ (.4;

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

BOARD OF MEDICINE. ‘
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,
PETITIONER,
vs. CASE NO. 8908835
JUAN A. IBANEZ, 14.0.

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMINIETBAIIXELEQMELAINI
COMES Now the Petitioner, Department or Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this

Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against

JUAN A. IBANEZ, M.D., hereinafter rnfarrad to as "Respondent," and
alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.2 ‘

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0042940. Respondent’s last known address is 320
lst Street South, Winter Haven, Florida 33880-3501.

3. At all times material hereto, Respondent was employed as
a pediatrician and general practitioner at the Green clinic in

Haines City, Florida.

\h/ \.J

4. On or about February 1, 1988, Patient {1, a thirty-aeven
(37) year old male insulin dependent diabetic, presented to
Respondent with complaints of nausea, vomiting, and general
malaise.

5. Respondent performed a physical examination of Patient
#1, and diagnosed the patient as suffering from influenza.

6. Respondent aubaequently gave Patient #1 a Vistaril
injection (muscle relaxant and anti—ematic), ordered a complete
blood count (CBC), and other blood tests, and sent Patient #1 home
with instructions to return to the clinic 1: his "flu" symptoms
persisted more than three (3) days.

7. Respondent's lab personnel report that lab results
showing Patient #1’3 elevated blood glucose levels were obtained
at 3:46 p.m. on or about February 1, 1988, the date of examination.
Respondent was not informed.

8. Respondent was absent from the clinic on or about
February 2, 1988, and returned to the clinic on or about February
3, 1988, at which tima he was informed of Patient {1's elevated
blcod gludoae levels.

9. Respondent subsequently contacted Patient #1 and advised
him to return for further blood tests on or about, Thursday,
February 4, 1988.

10. Patient #1 never appeared for his morning appointment,

as he was taken to the emergency room at Heart of Florida Hospital

in the late evening or early morning on or about February 4, 1988.

Patient #1 was admitted with complaints of dehydration, lethargy,

and respiratory distress. V “
11. Subsequent laboratory tests revealed Patient #1 was

suffering from elevated blood glucose levels and severe diabetic
katoacidosia. Patient #1 was transferred to the Intensive Care
Unit where he continued to decline, expiring on or about
February 6, 1988, from diabetic ketoacidosia.

12. Respondent’s records or Februagy 1, 1988, indicate only
a brief examination of Patient #1 for adenopathy (swelling of lymph
nodes) and an abdominal exam. No other organ systems were
examined, and no dietary instructions were given to this diabetic
patient.

13. Respondent’s notes concerning Patient #1 are sketchy at
best, provide limited information regarding Patient fl's condition,
and contain insufficient data to provide an accurate medical
diagnosis.

14. Respondent should have immediately re—avaluated Patient
#1 upon raqeiving the lab results showing a blood glucose level of
446 (80—120 normal) with nausea and vomiting. Advising the patient
to come into the clinic the next day was inappropriate.

QQDHI.QHE

15. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through fourteen (14), as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

16. Respondent is guilty of gross repeated malpractice, or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,

and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar

