FILED

Department of Protessional Regubt‘oﬁ
AGENCY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATIQ! 6)“
BOARD OF MEDICINE q/

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL CLERK

REGULATION, EZ’Z E ['3 2
DATE

Petitioner,

 

V. DPR CASE NUMBERS: 0081610
mm
m
$3225
$07320

LICENSE NUMBER: HE 0037720

Respondent. ( (9’

/ (9 x
W '
THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant

LEONARD A. RUBENSTEIN, M.D.,

 

to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on August 8, 1992, in
Tallahassee, Florida, for consideration of the Amended
Administrative Complaint (attached hereto as Exhibit A) in the
above-styled cause. At the hearing, Petitioner was represented by
Mary Radkins, Attorney at Law; Respondent was represented by
Theodore Mack, Esquire. The facts are not in dispute.

1. The allegations of fact set forth in the Administrative
Complaint are approved and adopted and incorporated herein by

reference as the findings of fact by the Board.

2. The conclusions of law alleged and set forth in the
Administrative Complaint are approved and adopted and incorporated
herein by reference as the conclusions of law by the Board.

3. The violations set forth warrant disciplinary action by

the Board. THEREFORE,

FILED

Department of Protessional Regubt‘oﬁ
AGENCY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATIQ! 6)“
BOARD OF MEDICINE q/

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL CLERK

REGULATION, EZ’Z E ['3 2
DATE

Petitioner,

 

V. DPR CASE NUMBERS: 0081610
mm
m
$3225
$07320

LICENSE NUMBER: HE 0037720

Respondent. ( (9’

/ (9 x
W '
THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant

LEONARD A. RUBENSTEIN, M.D.,

 

to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on August 8, 1992, in
Tallahassee, Florida, for consideration of the Amended
Administrative Complaint (attached hereto as Exhibit A) in the
above-styled cause. At the hearing, Petitioner was represented by
Mary Radkins, Attorney at Law; Respondent was represented by
Theodore Mack, Esquire. The facts are not in dispute.

1. The allegations of fact set forth in the Administrative
Complaint are approved and adopted and incorporated herein by

reference as the findings of fact by the Board.

2. The conclusions of law alleged and set forth in the
Administrative Complaint are approved and adopted and incorporated
herein by reference as the conclusions of law by the Board.

3. The violations set forth warrant disciplinary action by

the Board. THEREFORE,

7. The Respondent violated Chapter 21H—24.001(2), Florida
Administrative Code, in that he engaged in false, deceptive, or
misleading advertising by causing the dissemination of an
advertisement that: contains a misrepresentation of facts; makes
only a partial disclosure of relevant facts; misleads or
deceives; implies that Respondent has been "board certified;"
states that Respondent has received formal recognition as a
specialist but the recognizing agency 18 not approved by the
Board; or conveys the impression that Reapondent possesses
superior qualifications, skills or attributes.

8. Respondent has engaged in false, deceptive, or

misleading advertising.

9. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated
Section 658.33l(l)(d), Florida Statutes, by engaging in false,

deceptive or misleading edvertieing.

COUI! 1V0

10. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through eight (8) as if fully set forth herein Count Two.

11. Respondent has violated any provision of Chapter 658, a
rule of the board or department, or a lawful order of the board
or department pgeviouely entered in a disciplinary hearing or
failing to comply with a lawfully issued subpoena of the
department, in that he violated Chapter 21M-2h.001(2), Florida
Administrative Code, a rule of the Board.

12. Based on the foregoing, Respondent has violated Section
458.331(1)(x), Florida Statutes, by violating any provision of

this chapter, a rule of the board or depertnent, or a lawful

order of the hoerd or department previously entered in a

disciplinary hearing or felling to comply with e lawfully issued

subpoena of the depettnent.

reete Pertainisg to Patient #1
(Dr: cesn '0. 0001610)

13. On or about April 3. 1989. Respondent provided Iedical

care and treatment to Patient #1.

14. Patient #1 presented to the Respondent as e 17 year-old

white male with a history of otitis |edia and nasal congestion

who complained of possible allergy.
15. In the course of his physical examination of Patient

#1, the Respondent reported that eeid patient hed a deviated

nasal septum and a deviated nesel dorsal.

16. The Respondent informed Patient '1': lather that said
patient required surgery, without delay, to correct the

deviations of the nasal septue end dorsun.

17. The Respondent diagnosed Patient #1 as having allergic

rhinitis.
18. The Respondent 001d Patient '1'. mother Seldene, a

medicinal drug, for said patient without offering her a

prescription 0: giving her the opportunity to purchase this

medication from a couuunlty pharmacy.

19. The Respondent recommended to Patient '1': lather that

the following tests be perforled on eeid patient: allergy

testing, sinus x-reye, hearing teete, and pressure testing of the

middle eat.
20. The Respondent advised Patient '1': mother that e

"super bill" could be aubnitted to said patient'a insurance
carrier to pay for theae aforementioned tests before they were
performed, representing to the company that the testing had
already been performed. The patient's mother conferred with the
insurance carrier and declined to subnit such a bill.

21. On or about April 5, 1989, Respondent contacted Patient
Il‘s mother, urging the latter to obtain the aforementioned tests
for Patient #1 and suggested that the Iother use her credit card
to finance these tests. I

22. On or about April 12, 1989, Patient #1 was examined by

a subsequent physician who noted only a noderate deviation of the

nasal septum of said patient.

CODII till!
23. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1), two (2), and thirteen (13) through twenty-two (22), as if

fully set forth herein this Count Three.

24. The Respondent Iade deceptive, untrue, or fraudulent

representations in or related to the practice of medicine or

recommending that allergy testing, sinus x-rays, hearing tests,
and middle ear pressure test: were indicated for Patient #1; or
by urging the mother to sublit claiaa prior to services being
performed.

25. Based upon the foregoing, Reapondent has violated
Section 658.331(1)(k), Florida Statutes, by Iakin; deceptive,

untrue, or fraudulent representations in or related to the

practice of medicine or enploying a trick or scheme in the
practice of medicine.
COUNT P001

26. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1), two (2), and thirteen (13) through tventy-two (22) as if
fully set forth herein Count Four.

27. The Respondent exercised influence on the patient or
client in such a manner as to exploit the patient or client for
financial gain of the licensee or of a third party including, but
not limited to, the promoting or selling of services, goods,

appliances or drv~s in that: Respondent's contacted the mother

of Patient #1 recommending tests; by selling her a medicinal drug
without offering her a prescription or giving her an opportunit;
to purchase said medications at a community pharmacy; or by
urging her to submit claims prior to services being performed.

28. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated
Section 458.331(l)(n). Florida Statutes, by exercising influence
on a patient or client in such I manner as to exploit the patient
or client for financial gain of the Licensee or of a third party,
which shall include, but is not 11:1ted to, the promoting or
selling of setvgces, goods, epplienc~s, or drugs; and has failed
to perform 1 statutory or legal obligation in violation of

Section 458.331(1)(3), Florida Statutes, to wit Section

465.0276(2)(c). Florida Statutea.

Facts Pertainin' to Patient '2

29. From on or about February 1, 1985 to on or about

February 28, 1985, the Respondent provided medical care and
treatment to Patient I2.

30. A review of the Respondent's medical records indicate
that Patient #2 presented to the Respondent as a 28 year old
white female with a history of chronic pansinusitis, possible

cocaine abuse, and evidence of resulting frontal osteomyelitis.

31. On or about February 1, 1985, Patient #2 was admitted
to Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, for evaluation of chronic
pansinusitis and frontal osteomyelitie by the Respondent.

32. On or about February 2, 1985, a bone scan was performed

on Patient #2 whi ' was positive in the region of the frontal

bone.

-c

33. On or about February 2, 1985, a CT scan was performed
on Patient #2 which indicated pansinusitis of both antra and
ethmoids.

34. On or about February 3, 1985, Respondent discharged

Patient #2 without treatment or antibiotic therapy.

35. Respondent recommended that Patient #2 be readmitted at
a future date so that she might undergo the following procedures:
bilaterat Caldwell-Luc procedures and nasal antral window on the
right, bilateraE trensantral and intrtnasal ethuoidectomies, re-
exploration via osteoplaatic frontal flap of the frontal sinus,
and re—ablation of the frontal sinus.

36. On or about February 13, 1985, Patient #2 was
readmitted to Henorial Hospital in Sarasota for treatment of
chronic panainuaitia and frontal oateoayelitia by the Respondent.

37. On or about February 22, 1985, Respondent performed the

following procedures on Patient #2:

(1) Bilateral Caldwell-Luc end ttansnntra‘
ethnoidectonies

(b) Bilateral intranasal ethnoidectonies

(c) Creation of right nasal antral window and re-
exploration of the frontal sinus by osteoplastic

frontal sinusotony technique with re-ahlation of
the frontal sinus with abdominal wall fat.

38. During the course of the procedures listed in paragraph

thirty-seven (37), Respondent did not dehride Patient '2‘3 left

frontal sinus area before placing the free graft onto an infected

site.

39. The placing of a free fat graft onto an infected site

sidered a failure to practice medicine with an acceptable

is con

level of care.

COUII [1'3
#0. Petitioner reelleges and incorporates paregraphs one

(2) through two (2) end twenty-nine (29) through thitty-nine (39)

as if fully set forth herein this Count Five.
41. The Respondent failed to practice medicine with that

level of care, skill and treatment which a reasonably prudent

similar physician recognizes as acceptable under eiuiltr

conditions and circurstences in that the Respondent

inappropriately discharged Patient #2 from the hospital on or

about February 3, 1985 instead of operating on this patient who

was 111 with pansinunitis, and the Relpondent grafted I free fat

pad onto an infected site in Patient #2.

42. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated

Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, by groan or repeated

malpractice or the failure to oractice medicine with that level
of care, skill, and treetsent which is recognized by I reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances.
COURT SI!

43. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through two (2) and twenty-nine (29) through thirty-eight
(38) as if fully set forth herein this Count Six.

44. The Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of the patient including, but

not limited to, the following: the Respondent failed to justify

grafting a free fat pad onto an infected site in Patient #2.

45. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent hat violated
Section 458.331(l)(n), Florida Statutes (1983), now Section
458.331(l)(u), Florida Statutes, in that the Respondent failed to
keep written medical records justifying the course of treatment
of the patient including, but not liuited to, patient histories;

examination results; and test results.

Pacts Relating to Patient #3

46. A review of the medical records indicate: that from on
or about January 27, 1985 to on or shout January 30, 1985,

Respondent provided medical care and trestleut to Patient #3.

47. A review of the medical records indicates that Patient
#3 presented to the Respondent an a 12 year old white nele with a

history of nasal froctute/traulo dating back to on or about July

of 1984.

#8. On or about January 28. 1985, Reopondent perfor-ed

complex nasal septoplasty with cartilaginous implant on Patient
#3, and attempted a closed reduction of said petient's previously
documented nasal fracture.

#9. It is a standard of nasal surgery that a closed

reduction of a nasal fracture should be performed no later than

14 days after the fracture.
50. Attempting a closed reduction of a nasal fracture 5
months after it occurred is considered a failure to practice

medicine with an acceptable level of care.

51. In a young patient, such as Patient #3, failure to
properly reduce a nas*‘ fracture has a more pronounced effect on
the final size and configuration of the nose because the nasal
septum of such a patient is still growing.

52. The submucoua resection of a septul in a physically
immature patient, as was perforled by the Respondent in Patient
43's complex septoplaety, is considered a failure to practice
medicine with an acceptable level of care.

count SEVEN

53. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through two (2) and forty-Iix (46) to fifty-tvo (52) above as
if fully set fotth herein this Count Seven.

54. The Respondent failed to practice medicine with that
level of care, skill and treetlent which a reasonably prudent
sinilet physician recognize: as eccepteble under lilillf

conditions and circunltenceu in that: the Respondent ettenpted a
closed reduction of Patient 53's five month old neeel fracture,

and the Respondent performed I lubuucoeel resection of nasal

10

septum in a physically 1vnature patient, to wit Patient #3.

55. Baaed upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated
Section 458.331(1)(t). Florida Statutes, by gross or repeated
malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that level
of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances.

CODE! EIGHT

56. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one

(1) through two (2) end forty-six (56) to fifty-two (52) above as

if fully set forth herein this Count Fight.

57. The Respondent failed to keep written medical records

0

justifying the course of treetnent of the patient including, but

not limited to, the following: the Reapondent failed to justify
performing a closed reduction of Patient #3'a five month old
nasal fracture; and/ot Respondent failed to justify performing a
submucosal resection of Patient l3'a naaal Ieptua.

58. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated
Section 458.331(1)(n), Florida Statutes (1985), now Section
458.331(l)(n), Florida Statutea, in that the Reapondent failed to
keep written meQical records juatifyin; the course of treatment

of the patient including. but not limited to, patient historiea,

examination results and teat reaulta.

Iacta lalatlu' to ratiant £5

59. A review of the ledical recorda 1nd1cates that from on

 

or about April l7, 1985 to on or about April 22, 1985 the

Reapondent provided medical care and treatment to Patient '4.

ll

60. A review of the Respondent's Ied1cal records indicates
that Patient #6 presented to the Respondent as a 71 year old
white male with a history of lesion of the left anti-helix aulcus
(eat) that had been growing in size over a two year period.

61. On or about April 17, 1985, Respondent performed direct
laryngoecopy and biopsy of the left true vocal cord with
stripping, as well as biopsies of the left ventricle, left false
vocal cord, left pyriforn sinus, right true vocal cord, and post
carcoid area on the left side on Patient #5.

62. The frozen section of the left true vocal cord obtained
during the procedure listed in paragraph sixty-one (61) revealed
a squamous cell carcinot

63. On or about April 17, 1985, Respondent subsequently
performed an excision of Patient 4": carcinoma of the left anti-
helical fold (ear) and cartilage complex reconstruction of the
left anti-helix using nasal septel cartilage and a full thickness
skin graft from the left post auricular region.

64. The graft perforned by the Respondent on Patient #4 and
detailed in paragraph sixty-three (63) was not neceuaary because
the defect created by the Respondent could either have been
closed directly or closed with local flaps.

65. Perforlins a full thickness skin graft in conjunction
with a cartilage graft in the Ianner Respondent performed on
Patient #4 would hnve a lininal chance of lucceoo. was not
required and, therefore. would constitute a feilure to prnctice

Iedicine with an ecceptnble level of care.

66. A composite graft or a delayed procedure would be

12

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED:

1. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in the
amount of $15,000.00 against the Respondent. The fine shall be
paid by the Respondent to the Executive Director of the Board
within 1 year of the filing of the Final Order of the Board.

2. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand from the Board of
Medicine.

3. Respondent shall not initiate contacts with patients or
their families for the purpose of persuading then to agree to
Respondent's treatment recommendations.

4. Effective on the date of the filing of the Final Order
incorporating the terms listed. below, Respondent's license to

practice medicine shall be placed on probation for a period of ohe

year.

A- WW During the Pﬁl‘i“d 0f

probation, Respondent's license shall be restricted as follows:
i. W Respondent shall practice

only under the indirect supervision of a Boerd-epproved physician,
hereinafter referred to as the "monitor." In this regard,
Respondent shall allow the monitor access to Respondent's
medical records, calendar, patient logs or other documents
necessary tor the monitor to supervise Respondent as detailed
below.

B~ QBLIQAIIQH5LBEQHIBEHEEIE_QE_£BQBAIIQE; During the
period of probation, Respondent shall comply with the following

obligations and requirements:

1. Respondent shall appear before the Probation

indicated in e patient such as Patient #5, if such a patient had
a defect large enough to require grafting.
COBII III!
67. Petitioner reslleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through two (2). and fifty-nine (59) through sixty-six (66),
as if fully set forth herein this Count Nine.
68. The Respondent failed to practice medicine with that

level of care, skill and treatment which a reasonably prudent

similar physician recognizes as acceptable under similar

conditions and circumstances in that: the Respondent performed an
unnecessary graft on the ear of Patient #4 and that the graft

which was perforneu go said patient was of an inappropriate type

*-

which had only a minimal chance of success.

69. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated
Section 458.331(l)(t), Florida Statutes, by gross or repeated
malpractice or the failure to practice Iedicine with that level
of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar

conditions and circuestancel.

000'! Ill

 

70. Petitioner reslleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through two (2), and f1fty~n1ne (59) through sixty-foar (64)
and sixty-six (66) as if fully alleged herein this Count Ten.

71. The Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of the patient including, but

not liuited to, the following: the Respondent failed to justify

l3

performing a cartilage and full thickness skin graft on the ear

of Patient #4.

72. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated
Section b58.331(1)(n), Florida Statutes (1983). now Section
458.331(1)(B), Florida Statutes, in that the Respondent failed to
keep written medical records justifying the course of treatment
of the patient including, but not limited to, patient histories,
examination results and test results.

Facts Relating to Patient #5

73. A review of the medical records indicates that from on
or about March 25, 1985 to on or about March 28, 1985, Respondent
provided medical care 0“. treatment to Patient #5.

7k. A review of the medical records indicates that Patient
#5 presented to the Respondent as a 67 year old white male with a
history of deviated nesoeeptun and nasal obstruction.

75. On or about Hatch 26, 1990, Respondent performed direct
laryngoscopy and tight true vocal cord stripping, as well as
nasal septopleety.

76. The pathology report of the tissue submitted from thc
laryngoscOpic procedures noted no abnormal tissue or ntypie.

77. The concomitant performance of direct laryngoscopy and
nasal surgery that the Respondent perfor-ed on Patient #5 is a
failure to practice Iedicine with an acceptable level of care in
that such a practice could lead to serious upper airway

obstruction.
COUNT ILIVBI

78. Petitioner reellegee and incorporate: paragraphs one

14

(1) through two (2), and seventy-three (73) through seventy-seven
(77) as if fully set forth herein this Count Eleven.

79. The Respondent failed to practice medicine with that
level of care, skill and treatment which a reasonably prudent

similar physician recognizes as acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances in that, the Respondent performed
direct laryngoscopy and nasal packing concomitantly on Patient #5
when such a practice may lead to serious upper airway

obstruction.

80. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated

Section A58.33l(1)(t), Florida Statutes, by gross or repeated
malpractice or the failure to ,.actice medicine with that level
of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonabiy
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar

conditions and circumstances.

COUNT TVILVI

 

81. Petitioner reallegel and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through two (2), and seventy-thtee (73) through seventy-seven
(77), as if fully set forth herein this count Twelve.

82. The Respondent feiled to keep written medical records
justifying the gourae of treatment of the patient including, but
not limited to, the following: the Respondent performed direct
larynsoscopy and nasal packing conconitently on Patient #5

without providing any indication or juutification in his medical

records.

15

83. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated
Section 458.33l(1)(n), Florida Statutes (1983). now Section
458.331(l)(u), Florida Statutes, in that the Respondent failed to
keep written medical records justifying the course of treatment
of the patient including, but not limited to, patient histories,
examination results and test results.

Facts Relating to Patient #6

84. A review of the medical records indicates that from on
or about November 29, 198‘ to on or about December 9. 1984, the
Respondent provided medical care and treatment to Patient #6.

85. A review of the Iedical records indicates that Patient
#6 presented to the Responde' as a 75 year old white female with
a history of lower lip crusting/dtyneso. -

86. On or about November 30. 1984, Respondent performed an
excisional biopsy and complex repair of the lower lip with
advancement 11p shave technique, and microscopic direct

laryngoscopy with laser excisional biopsy of the false vocal cord

polyps (bilaterally) and true vocal cord polyps on Patient #6.

87. During the course of the direct laryngoscopy performed
on Patient #6, Respondent loosened said patient's tooth.

88. Respohdent noted in a brief operative note of on or
about November 30, 1984 that Patient #6‘a tooth \aa loosened;
however, Respondent reported in this sane note that Patient #6
had "satisfactory atatus (after) operation."

89. Respondent reported in a progress note written after

the operation on or abOut Noveaber 30, 198‘, that Patient #6 had

16

"no problems (after) operation."

90. Respondent failed to practice medicine with an
acceptable level of care in that he should have performed a
preoperative biopsy on Patient 56's lower lip rather than
performing the more complicated lip shave procedure which has a
greater chance of potential problems for an elderly patient.

91. Respondent failed to practice medicine with an
acceptable level of care by performing a combined lip shave
procedure and direct latyngoscopy in Patient #6, because such a
practice has a significant chance of causing serious upper airway

obstruction.

COUNT *"IIIBII

C

92. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through two (2), and eighty-four (8‘) through ninety-one
(91), as if fully set forth herein this Count Thirteen.

93. The Respondent failed to practice medicine with that
level of care, skill and treatment which a reasonably prudent
similar physician recognizes as acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances in that the Respondent failed to
perform a preoperative biopsy of Patient '6': lower lip before
performing a cohplex 11p shave procedure, and the Respondent

performed a combined 11p shave procedure with direct laryngoscopy

on Patient #6 when such practice may lead to serious upper airway

obstruction.

94. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated

17

Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes. by gross or repeated

malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that level
of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances.
COUNT ?OUITEEN

95. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through two (2), and eighty~four (86) through ninety-one
(91), as if fully set forth herein this Count Fourteen.

96. The Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of the patient including, but

not limited to, the follow: ,: the Respondent inappropriately

reported Patient #6'3 post-operative condition as being
satisfactory and without problems when, in fact, said patient had
a loosened tooth resulting from direct laryngoscopy performed by

the Respondent; and Respondent's records fail to justify his

failure to obtain a preoperative biopsy.

97. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated
Section 458.33l(1)(n), Florida Statutes (1983), now Section
458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes. in that the Respondent failed to

keep written medical records justifying the course of treatment

of the patient including. but not limited to, patient histories,

examination results and test results.

ggete leletin. to Patient '7

98. A rev1eu of the nedical records indicates that from on

18

or about June °. 1985 to on or about June 13, 1985 the Respondent

provided medical care and treatment to Patient #7.

99. A review of the ledical records indicates that Patient

#7 presented to the Respondent as a 65 year old white female with

bilateral aubuandibular duct abscesses and aubuandibular

obstruction and a history of temperonandibular joint syndrome

like problems.

100. On or about June 9, 1985, Respondent performed an

incision and drainage of Patient ‘7': periductal aubuandibular

regions, and subsequently placed said patient on a course of

intravenous antibiotic therapy.

101. Priot to perforning surgery on Patient #7, Respondent

.-

failed to perform x-raya to detect possibly salivary duct stones.

102. Prior to perforling surgery on Patient #7, Respondent

failed to place said patient on a trial of conservative leasures

such as sialagoguea, naaaage, or canalization of the salivary

glands.

103. Respondent's Iedical records do not document whether

or not the Respondent palpated for salivary duct stones during

the course of his physical examination of Patient #7.

104. Respgndent failed to record an operative note of the

surgery which he performed on Patient #7 of on or about June 9,

1985.
COUNT PIPTIEI

105. Petitioner reallegea and incorporates one (1) through

19

two (2) end ninety-eight (98) through one hundred four (10‘), as
if fully set forth herein this Count Fifteen.

106. The Respondent failed to practice medicine with that
level of care, skill and treatment which a reasonably prudent
similar physician recognizes as acceptable under similar
condition: and circumstances in that: the Respondent failed to
obtain x—rays on Patient #7 to determine if said patient had
salivary duct stones prior to performing surgery, and the
Respondent failed to place Patient #7 on a trial of conservative
measures before performing surgery.

107. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated

Section 658.331(l)(t), Florida Statutes, by gross or repeated
malpractice or the failure to practice Iedicine with that level-
of care, skill, and treetlent which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances.
600'! 8131!!!

108. Petitioner reallegee end incorporetes paragraphs one
(1) through two (2), end ninety-eight (98) through one hundred
four (105), as if fully net forth herein this Count Sixteen.

109. The geapondent fl11ed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of the patient including, but
not limited to, the following: the Respondent failed to perform
x-rays on Patient #7 to rule out salivary duct stones, failed to

document in his physical examination of Patient #7 (whether or

not he palpated said patient'l salivary ducts for stones), and

20

failed to nuke an operative note of the intiaion and drainage he

performed on Patient #7.

110. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated

Section 458.331(1)(n), Florida Statutes (1983), now Section

458.33l(l)(m), Florida Statutes, in that Respondent failed to

keep written medical records justifying the course of treatment

of the patient including, but not limited to, patient histories,

examination results and test results.

CODII SEVEHIIIN

Facts Pertainin. to Patient {8

(DP! Can: No. 89-7820)

328 and incorporates paragraphs (1) and

111. Petitioner all:

two (2) and further alleges:

112. From on or about November 9, 1988, to on or about May

25, 1989, Respondent provided medical care and treataent to

patient #8.

113. On or about November 22, 1988, patient #8 was admitted

to the hospital with a diagnoaia of chronic allergic rhinitis,

chronic pansinusitis and turbinate hypertrophy.

116. Respondent perforned several procedures on patient #8,

eral antronaaal endoscopy;

including, but not lilited to, bilat

bilateral inferior turbinoplasty; bilateral

nasal septoplaty;

nasal antral window creations; and bilateral laxillary ainoacopy

and excision of polyp of right Iaxillary antrum.

115. On or about December 5, 1988, Respondent's health

insurance clail for- included as aeparate procedures, but was not

21

limited to, uaxillary sinus endoscopy left; laxillary sinus
endoscopy right; lexillary entroatony with endoscopy left; and

laxillary entrostouy with endoscopy right.

116. Respondent billed for bilateral entrostomiea with
endoscopies, and separately for bilateral endoscopies, when only
one bilateral endoscopic procedure was performed.

117. Respondent has made or filed a report which he knows
to be false, or has made deceptive, untrue or fraudulent
representations in or related to the practice of medicine.

118. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated
218ection 458.331(1)(h), Florida Statutes, by making or filing a

report which he knows to be false; or Section 458.331(l)(k),

Florida Statutes by making deceptive, untrue, or fraudulent
representations in or related to the practice of medicine.

COUNT EIGHT!!!

Pacts Pertaining to ratient 09
(DPI Case lo. 1090‘5)

119. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) and two (2) and further allegen:

120. On or about September 20, 1988, Patient #9 presented
to Respondent :9 be ev;1ueted for e transtrncheal oxygen delivery
therapy.

121. Patient '9 was elked by Respondent's secretary to sign

a blank insuxance cleil form.

122. During the office visit, Respondent performed an

22

Committee of the Board of Medicine at the first Committee meeting
after probation commences, at the last meeting of the Committee
preceding scheduled termination of the probation, and at such other
times as requested by the Committee. Respondent shall be noticed
by the Board staff of the date, time and place of the Committee

meeting whereat Respondent's appearance is required. Failure of
Respondent to appear as requested or directed shall be considered
a violation of the terms of this Agreement, and shall subject the
Respondent to disciplinary action.

ii. During the period of probation, Respondent
shall post a schedule of his fees for various tests and procedures
that he uses. Respondent shall
provide to all patients written estimates of his fees for proposed
tests and procedures before undertaking those tests and procedures.

iii. Respondent shall attend 5 hours of Category I
Continuing Medical Education courses in the area of medical ethics
within one year of the Filing of the Final Order. Respondent shall
submit a written plan to the Chairman of the Probation Committee
for course approval prior to the completion of said courses. In
addition, Respondent shall submit documentation of completion of
these courses in his required reports. These hours shall be in
addition to those hours required for renewal of licensure. Unless
otherwise approved by the Board or the Chairman of the Probation
Committee, sa;d courses shall consist of a formal live lecture
format.

iv. During the next one year, Respondent shall

perform 80 hours of community service. Community service shall

otorhinolatyngolical exam, tested Patient §9's oxygen saturation

and performed a stroboscopy on Patient #9. Respondent also

indicated in his medical records that he performed a laryngoscopy

on Patient #9 but did not indicate if the laryngoscopy was a

direct or indirect laryngoscopy.

123. A stroboscopy synchronizes a strobe light with the

phonic vibrations of the vocal cords to detect subtle changes in

the waves of motion on the surface of the vocal mucosa.
124. Patients in similar circumstances or with similar

conditions to Patient #9, neither need not benefit from a

stroboscopy.

125. A direct laryngoecopy is an operative procedure where

a metal tube is inserted in the mouth of the patient down to the

throat so that the physician can look down and get a direct view

of the larynx.
126. Respondent did not perform a direct laryngoscopy on
Patient #9.

127. Subsequent to Patient #9': office visit, Respondent

submitted the presigned insurance for- billing Patient i9's

insurance company $1,000.00 for performing e direct laryngoscopy

on Patient #9. -

128. Patient ‘9': insurance company paid Respondent for

performing a direct laryngoscopy on Patient ’9.

129. Respondent exercised influence on Patient #9 for

23

financial gain, in that Respondent charged Patient '9'3 insurance

company for a direct laryngoacopy which Respondent did not

perform and a atroboscopy which Patient #9 did not need.

130. Based on the preceding allegations. Respondent

violated Section £58.331(1)(n). Florida Statutes, exercising

influence on the patient or client in Such a manner as to exploit

the patient or client for financial gain of the licensee or of a

third party, which shall include, but not be limited to the

promoting or selling of services, goods, appliances or drugs.

COUNT RINBTEII
131. Petitioner realleges and incorporated paragraphs one

hundred and nineteen (119) thrOugh one hundred and tventy-eight

-I'

(128) above as if fully set forth herein.
132. Respondent uede deceptive, untrue, or fraudulent

representations in or related to the practice of medicine and has

made or filed a report which he knew to be false. in that

Respondent charged Patient 69's insurance conpany for direct

laryngoscopy that was not perforled on Patient #9 and a

stroboscopy that did not benefit Patient #9.

133. Based on the preceding allegatione, Respondent

violated Section é58.331(l)(k), Florida Statutes, making

deceptive, untrue or fraudulent representations in or related to

the practice of medicine or employing I trick or scheme in the

practice of medicine, or Section 658.331(1)(h), Florida Statutes,

by making or filing e report which the licensee known to be

false.

24

COUNT THIRTY

13b. Petitioner tealleges and incorporates paragraphs one

hundred and nineteen (119) through one hundred and twenty-nine

(x29) above, as if fully set forth herein.

135. The Respondent failed to practice medicine with that

level of care, skill and treatment which a reasonably prudent

similar physician recognizes as acceptable under similar

conditions and circumstances in that Respondent performed a

stroboscopy that did not benefit the patient and was not needei

in evaluating Patient #9.

136. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated

Section ~38.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, by gross or repeated

.-

malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with the level of

care, skill and treatment which is recognized by e reasonably

similar physician as being acceptable under sililar conditions

and circumstances.

COB]! IHIIIY-OII
137. Petitioner reallegee and incorporates paragraphs one

hundred and nineteen (119) through one hundred and tuenty~nine

(129) as if fully set forth herein.

138. The Kespondent failed to keep written medicel records

justifying the course of treatment of the patient including, but

' the Respondent did not keep

have medical records showing that a direct larynxoscopy was done.

25

139. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated
Section 458.331(1)(I), Florida Statutes, 1n thet the Respondent
failed to keep written medical records justifying the caurse of
treatment of the patient, including, but not limited to patient
histories; examination results; test results.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine to enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, impositior of an

administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

'6
SIGNED this / /-IA day of 42’2“: 7L , 1991.
I .

 

GEORGE srugng, Secretary by:

/' w

BRUCE n. LAMB /
Chief, Trial Atﬁgtney

   
   
      

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

33003 D. LAID

Chief Trial Attorney
Department of Professional
Regulation, Suite 201

730 S. Sterling'St.

Tampa, FL 33609

(813) 871-7280

26

consist of the delivery of medical services directly to patients,
without fee or cost to the patient,for the good of the people of
the State of Florida. Such community service shall be performed
outside the Respondent's regular practice setting. Respondent
shall submit a written plan for performance and completion of the
community service to the Probation Committee for approval prior to
performance of said community service. Affidavits detailing the
completion of community service requirements shall be filed with

the Board semiannually.

v. Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring

that the monitor submits all required reports.

vi. other requirements of probation.

C- BE5EQN5IBILIIIBSw9ILIHE_HQNIIQBIHQ_EH¥§ISIAH-
The Monitor shall:

1. Review 25% percent of Respondent's active
patient records at least once a month, for the purpose of
ascertaining Respondent's compliance with the billing and fees
procedures described herein. The monitor shall go to Respondent's
office once every month and shall review Respondent's calendar or
patient log and shall select the records to be reviewed.

ii. Any other records review requirements.

iii. Submit reports on a semiannual basis, in
affidavit form, which shall include:

a) A brief statement of why Respondent is on

probation.

b) At description of Respondent's practice

(type and composition).

c) A statement addressing Respondent's
compliance with the terms of probation.

d) A brief description of the monitor’s
relationship with the Respondent.

e) A statement advising the Board of any

problems which have arisen.

f) A summary of the dates the monitor went to
Respondent's office, the number of records reviewed, and the

overall quality of the records reviewed.

iv. Maintain contact with the Respondent on a
frequency of at least twice per month. In the event that the
monitor is not timely contacted by Respondent, then the monitgr
shall immediately report this fact in writing to the Board.

v. Respondent’s monitor shall appear before the
Probation Committee at the first meeting of said committee
following commencement of the probation, and at such other times as
directed by the Committee. It shall be Respondent's responsibility
to ensure the appearance of his monitor to appear as requested or
directed. If the approved monitor fails to appear as requested or
directed by the Probation Committee, the Respondent shall
immediately Geese practicing medicine until such time as the
approved monitor or alternate monitor appears before the Probation

Committee.

D. BEEQBI§_EBQH_B£§EQEDEEI. The Respondent shalA submit

quarterly reports, in affidavit form, the contents of which may be
further specified by the Board, but which shall include:

i. A brief statement of why Respondent is on

probation.
ii. A description of practice location.
iii. A description or current practice (type
and composition).
iv. A brief statement of compliance with
probationary terms.
vi. A description of the relationship with
monitoring physician.
vii. A statement advising the Board of any
problems which have arisen.
viii. A statement addressing conpliancc with
any restrictions or requirements imposed.
E. W. Respondent's probation shall he
governed by the attached "provisions regarding
monitoring/supervising physicians," Exhibit B, which is
incorporated as if fully set forth herein.
This Final Order takes ottoct upon filing with the Clark of

the Department.

’
DONE AND ORDERED this /5 day @1" , 1992.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

 

CHAIRMAN

IQII£I_QI_BIQII_19_£!DIQILL_BIIIII

A PARTY WHO IS ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THIS FINAL ORDER IS
ENTITLED TO JUDICIAL REVIEW PURSUANT TO SECTION 120.68,
FLORIDA STATUTES. REVIEW PROCEEDINGS ARE GOVERNED BY THE
FLORIDA RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE. SUCH PROCEEDINGS
ARE COMMENCED BY FILING ONE COPY OF A NOTICE OF APPEAL
WITH THE AGENCY CLERK OF THE DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION AND A SECOND COPY, ACCOMPANIED BY FILING FEES
PRESCRIBED BY LAW, WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL,
FIRST DISTRICT, OR WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL IN
TRE APPELLATE DISTRICT "HERE THE PﬁRTY RESIDES. THE
NOTICE OF APPﬁhlnﬁUST BE FILED WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF
RENDITION OF THE ORDER TO BE REVIEWED.

QIBIIIIQAII_QZ_IIB!I£I
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing

has been provided by certified U.s. Hail to Leonard A. Rubenstein,
M.D., 1425 South Osptey, Suite 5, Sarasota, Florida 33578 and J.
Joaquin Fraxedas, Attorney at Law, Cobb, Cole a Bell, p.o. 33x
140639, Haitland, Florida 32794-0639 and by interoffice delivery
to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Hodical Attorney, Department of
Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe

street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792, at or before 5:00 P.H.,

this day of , 1992.

 

 

DOROTHY J. FAIRCLOTH
Executive Director

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION 0! ADUIIISIIAIIVI IBLIIIGS ' --

DBPAITIII! 0? PROFESSIOILL

IBGULAIIOI,
Petitioner,
DOA! CA5; '01.: 90-5216/91-1724
91-4‘61
vs. DP! CASE no..: 008161010109065
89-68b‘l89-3225
89—7820

Leonard A. Rubinstein, H.D.

Respondent.

/
AMENDED ADHIIISTIAIIVI COMPLAINT
COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter r ”irred to es "Petitioner." and files
this Amended Administrative Complaint before the Board of -
Medicine against LEONARD A. RUBINSIEIN, 3.0., hereinafter
referred to es "Respondent", and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the etete agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is end has been at all tines materiel hereto
a licensed physician in the state of Florida. having been issued
license number HE 0037720. Respondent's lest gnovn address is
1625 S. Osprey, Suite 5, Sarasota, Florida 33578.

count OI!
(DP! CA8! I0. 89-600‘)

3. The Respondent placed an advertisement in the 1989
edition of the Hanetee/Seteeote Phone Book's Yellow Pegen in

which he implies that he is a "board certified" Ieuher of The

1 nut; “ n"

Alerican Academy of Cosmetic Surgery, and states that he is a

"full fellow" of that organization.

4. At the time that the aforementioned advertisement

appeared. the Respondent was not "board certified" by the

American Academy of Cosmetic Surgery.
5. The American Academy of Cosmetic Surgery is not a
specialty board approved by the American Board of Medical

Specialties, or other recognizing agency approved by the Board of

Medicine.

6. Rule 21H-24.001, PAC, is a rule of the Board of
Medicine, and states, in pertinent part:

(2) No physician shall disseminate or cause the
dissemination of any advertiselent or advertising which
is false, deceptive, or nisleeding. Any advertisement or
advertising shall be deemed by the Board to be false,

deceptive or misleading if it:

(8) Contains a misrepresentation of facts; or
(b) Makes only a partial disclosure of relevant

facta; or
iii

(e) Contains any other representation, statement or

claim which Iieleads or deceives; or

(f) States or 1np11ea that the physician has
received formal recognition as a specialist in any
aspect of the practice of Iedicine unless he has in
fact received such recognition and such recognizing
agency is approved by the Board. For purposes of
this rule, the Board approves the apecialty boards
of the American Board of Hedicel Specialties as a
recognizing agency, and such other recognizing
agehciee as may receive future approval by the

Board.
it!

(h) Conveya the impression that the physician
disseminating the advertising or referred to therein
possesses qualificationa, skills. or other
attributes, which are superior to other physicians,
other than a eiaple listing of earned professional
post-doctoral or other professional achievement:

recognized by the Board.

