F I L E D

den! 0! Busmem anal anlaﬁsmna; Reguv'amn

STAKE OF FLORIDA AGENCYCHRK

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIQNAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT or 'BUSINESS AND am 5.64% A”- NW M,
,7

FROFESS) ONAL REGULATION, DWW

Petit ioner,

DBPR CASE NUMBER: 89-13483
LICENSE NUEBER: ME 0055201

JENNY KAZL'JE YOSHIDA, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

1an 0mm

 

THIS MATTER came before the Beard Of Medicine (Bcard) pursuant

to Section 120.5713), Florida Statutes, on December 4, 1993, in

Boca Raton, Flofida, for consideration Of a Consent Agreement
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the partxes in
the above~styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent
Agreement, the documents submitted in suppqzt thereof. the
arguments of the parties. and being otherwise advised in the
premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and nﬁopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the

Consent Agreement.

 

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of
the Department.
BONE AND ORDERED this ~ - day ,( ‘Lu-

_.4

BOARD OF MEDICINE

FIRST VICE CHAIRMAN
CEERLWIEE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and Correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.s. Mail to Jenny Kazue Yoshida,
M.D., PA). Box 618191. Orlando, Florida 32561‘6191, John D.C.
ﬁewton, Esquire, El? South Monroe Street. Suite 701, F.D. Box 1876,
Tallahassee‘ Florida 32302-1876 and by interoffice delivery to

Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney, Department of

Business and Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North

Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, at or before 5:00

P.M.. th;5 day of , l993.

W M. HTMIS, Ph.D.
Executive Director

 

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the
Board of Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the
following penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s
license, restriction of the: Respondent’s practice, imposition of
an administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief .that the Board

deems appropriate .

SIGNED this i: day of _ AWI/ , 1991.

 

George Stua

Secret y -
J 4.. . ,,

 

 

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT: F I L E D
Larry E. McPherson, Jr. 0992”"‘9mO’Pfofesmona) Regulaﬁon
Chief Medical Attorney AGENCY CLERK
Department of Professional 6/
Regulation A L?
1940 North Honroe Street ( >46 : J ”O ‘
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750 V L/I" ;
Bar #7886-33 CLERK ___~_
c'JR/bg/tc f _
PCP: May 4, 1991 DATE I

Vitale, Ashkar and Skinner

 

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPART MENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
v. DPR Case No‘ 89-13483
JENNY K. YOSHIDA, M.D.,

Respondent.
I

991439” agiﬂEEMENI
Jenny K'. Yosmda, M.D., (efeued Ko as \he ‘Respondent'_ and the Department
of Professional ﬁegulationt referred :0 as "Departmem', stipuiam and agree m the
following Agreement and ID the cntry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine,
referred to as "Board“, incorporaung the Stipulated Facts and Shpulaied Disposition

in xhis matter.

SjﬂBLJLATED FA: 2'! 3

1. At all times matend harem», Respondem was a ticensed physician in the

State of F‘orida having been issued Jwense number ME 0055201.

2. Respondent was chargEd by an Administrative Complaint filed by the
Department and properly served upon Reswndem with violations of Chapter 458,
Florida Statutes, and the rules SnaCICd pursuant therexo. A true and correct copy of

me Adminsnawe Complaint IS attached hereto as Exhibit A.

 

3. ReSpondent neitheradmits nordenles the allegations or fact contained in the

Administratiye Complatnt.

STIPHLATED QQNQLgJSIQNS QF 1 AW

1. Respondent admits‘ that. in her capacity as a licensed physician, she is
subiect to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the
jurisdiction of the Department and the Board.

2. Resaondent admits that the bets set ferth In the Administrative Comulaint,
if p(oven, WO-JQd constttute violattons cf Chapter 458, Florida Statutes. as aileged In
the Administrative Complaint

§TIPLJLATELDI§ PQﬁlTlQﬂ

1. ELLILﬂE 5 QNDQQT. Respondent shalt not in the future violate Chapters
455, 45-8 and 893, FIorida Statutes, or the wtes promulgeted pursuant thereto.

24 ELNQ The Board shall impose an administrative ﬁne in the amount of
$1000.00 against the Respondent. The fine shah be paid by the Respondent to the
Executive DHECKOI of the Board V‘Jiihln 30 days of its imposition Dy Final Order of the
Board.

3. LEILEFLQEMEE‘L The Respondent shall receive a letter of concern
from the Board of Medicine,

4. QELiﬁA—Tlslﬂi-

8 Respondent shan attend 20 hours of Category I Continuing Medical
Education courses m the areas of diagnosis and treatment of alcohol related conditions

and diseases within twelve (12) months 0! the filing of the Final O(det accepting this

 

agreement. Respcndem shall submit documentation of completion of these courses
in a written report to be filed with the 803“! of Medicine within twelve (12) months
of the filing [of the: Final Order accepting thj_s agreement, These hours shall be in
addition to those hours required for renewal of licensure. Uniess otherwise approved
by the Board, said courses shast consist of a format live ’tecture tetmat.

b. Respondent shall review all matters related to this case and shall
come to the Board of Medicine's consideration of this matter prepared to discuss this
case, the lessons she has learned from this case and how she has changed practice
of medicine as a resutt of this matter‘

5. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject to the approval of
the Board and the Department In this regarding the foregoing paragraphs (and only
the foregoing paragraphs) shall have no force and effect unless a Final Order is
entered incorporathg the terms 0‘. this Agreement, by the Board

6. ReSpondent shalt appear before the Board at the meeting of the Board where
this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in conjunction with the consideration bf
this Agreement by the Board. shall respond to questions under oath from the Board,
Board Staff or Department Staff.

7. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in furtherance of'this
Agreement by the Respondent may be used as direct evidence against the Respondent

in any proceeding; however{ such statements may be used by the Petitioner for

impeachment Durpc‘sesv

 

8. Respondent and the Department tully understand that this joint Agreement
and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will in no way preclude additional
pmaeedings by the Board ahd/or the Department against the Respondent for acts or
omi5sions not specifically set lorth in the Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit
‘A' herein.

9. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent expressly waives

all further procedural steps, and expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of

or to otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order
of the Board incorporating said Agreement.

10‘ Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, the parties hereby agree
that each party will hear his own attorney’s fees and costs resulting from prosecution
or defense of this matter. Respondent waives the tight to seek any attorney's fees
or costs from the Depanment in connection with this matter.

11. This Agreement IS executed by the Respondent for the purpose of avoiding
further administrative action with respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent
authorizes the Board to revuew and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideiation of the Agreement.
Furtheimore, should this joint Agreement not be accepted by the Board, it is agreed
that presentation to and conSideration of this Agreement and other documents and
matters by the Board shall not unfairly or illegally preiudice the Board 0( any of its

members from lthher participation, consideration or resolution of these proceedings.

 

El

SIGNEDIhistav orJJi/Q. gag? 1993.
//\ ‘ ‘.

 
   

\i.

. whose identity is
known to me by_ {:15- F} {type 0: Identificaiion) and
who, under oath. acknowledges! at her 569 ature appears above

 

Sworn to and SL'bSClibed before me this _ day of 1993

%& gdﬁvd/ Xﬁjﬁy n 9690

Nga‘ ARV PUBLIC

My Commission Expires:

APPROVEDthisoEQLGay m (W 1993.

George Stuart
Secretary

 

 

C‘ xef Attorney
Medical Section

5

O

O
Q
C)
C J
1: 1

 

 

F1

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMEHT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

?ETITIONER,
vs. CASE NO. 8913493
JENNY K. YDSHIDA, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

gDﬂiﬁgsTRAIIVE COMEIQINI

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred w as "Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against JENNY
K. YOSHIDA, M,D., hereinafter referred to 3: “Respondent," and
alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with
regulating the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30,
Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458,
Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at: all times material
hereto :1 licehsed physician in the State of Florida, having been
issued license numbmr ME n055201. Respondent’s last known address
in Post thice Box 518191, Orlando, Florida, 32861—6191.

3. On or about October 24, 1989, Patient il's son

found Patient #1 passed out on the floor of her home.

 

 

4n On Gr about Detober 25. 1939, Patient 11's son and
a friend of Patient #1 took Patient I1 to her primary physician’s
office with complaints of numbness and pain in her legs. weakness,
dizziness, loss of bodily functions, and very yellow in color.

fL On or about October 25, 1989, Raspondent noted
Patient #1 compiaining of dizziness over one (1) mnnth, occasional
ringing or blockage in her ears, weakness for one (1) week, 1055

of appetite. back strain for one (1) week, and difficulty with

bowel movements for tug [2) weeks.

6. Respondent's records for Patient {1 reveal a
history of alcohol abuse and smoking two (2) packs of cigarettes
per day for several years.

7. Upon performing a rectal examination on Patient #1,
Raspcndent found some bleed, and also detected a trace of edema.

8. Respondent's impression of Patient #1 was alcohol
abuse, and he advised Patient (1 to discontinue smoking and
drinking. Respondent then prescribed amoxicillin to Patient #1,
and referred Patient 1] to the Biodyne Clinic for alcohol abuse
treatment.

9. On or about October 25, 1989, Patient I1, with the
help of her son and friend, presented to the Biodyne Clinic.

The personnel there noted Patient #1 to be jaundiced and acutely
ill‘ and instructed Patient {1 be taken to the hospital emergency
room (ER).

10. On preSEntation to the ER, Patient [1 was examined
by a physician other than Respondent, whose initial impression of
Patient #1 was severe anemia, gastrointestinal bleeding,

hyponatremia, and alcoholic cirrhosis—hepatitis,

2 000008

 

11. On examination, this physician found Patient {1's

abdomen to distended, with the liver palpated down to the level of
the pelvic brim, and that Patient #1 has bleeding internally, as
blood was found in her stool during a rectal exam.

12. This physician immediately ordered a blood
transfusion, as Patient {1’s hemoglobin was three and nine tenths
(3.9), with the normal range between twelve (12) to sixteen (16).

13. Patient #1 was subseﬁuently admitted to the
Intensive Care Unit, and then spent six (6) days in the hospital.

14. Patient #l's condition, including but not limited
to, being a known alcoholic and experiencing gastrointestinal
bleeding, required immediate hospitalization.

15. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that
level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a
reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under
similar conditions and circumstances, in that Respondent failed to
immediately hospitalize Patient.f; despite Patient {1's condition
which included, but was not limited to, gastrointestinal bleeding.

16. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331I1)(ty, Florida Statutes, by gross or repeated malpractice
or the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and

circumstances.

 

