dég.

FILLIJ

Departmem 01 Professional Renu’ﬁ‘w‘

AGENCY CLERK

(K )M%Mi

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATIQNERK

BOARD OF MEDICINE _
DATE '
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,
Petitioner,
V. DPR CASE NUMBER: 89-09900

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0003406

YOUNGER A. STATON, M.D.,

Respondent.

/
F NAL ORDER

THIS CAUSE came before the Board of Medicine (Board) in Miami,
Florida, on October 2, 1992, for the purpose of considering
Respondent's offer to voluntarily relinquish his license to
practice medicine in the State of Florida. (attached hereto as
Exhibit A.) Said written offer of relinquishment specifically
provides: "Respondent agrees never again to apply for licensure as
a physician in the State of Florida."

Upon consideration of the written offer of voluntary
relinquishment, the charges, and the other documents of record, and
being otherwise fully advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED,

That Respondent’s Voluntary Relinquishment of his license to

practice medicine in the State of Florida is hereby ACCEPTED.

 

Z

 

ﬁVL‘

(n; .
DONE AND ORDERED this 2 day of 47L}1%L0V’, 1992.

BOARD OF MEDICINE
/W_

\

ZACHARIAH, M.D.

        

ZACHARIAH
CHAIRMAN
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
Final Order has been provided by certified mail to Younger A.
Staten, M.D., 350 Cocoanut Row, 3~B, Palm Beach, Florida 33480 and
by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical
Attorney, Department of Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre,

1940 North Monroe Street,,Tallahasse A Florida 32399-0792, at or
. f/hf‘

     

 
 

L
before 5:00 P.M., thiS\L9 \ day of

    

DOROTHY J AIRCLOTH
Executive Director

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
v. DPR Case No. 89-09900
YOUNGER A. STATON, M.D.,

Respondent.

________/
VS 2L! INTARY RELINg 2UISHMENT QF LIQENSE

To avoid the necessity of further administrative proceedings in this case, the
Respondent herein ﬁles this Voluntary Relinquishment of his license to practice as a
physician in the State of Florida, with the provision that the Respondent agrees never again
to apply for licensure as a physician in the State of Florida.

When relinquishments are offered to the Board of Medicine to avoid further
administrative prosecution, this is considered to be disciplinary action against your license
to practice medicine in the State of Florida. As such, any and all disciplinary actions taken
by the Board of Medicine are reported to the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank.

Upon the Board’s adoption of this Relinquishment, Respondent expressly waives all
further procedural steps and expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to
otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the Relinquishment and the Final Order of the

Board incorporating said relinquishment.

Upon the Board’s adoption of this relinquishment, the parties hereby agree that each
party will bear his own attorney’s fees and costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this
matter. Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney’s fees or costs from the
Department in connection with this matter.

This Relinquishment is executed by the Respondent for the purpose of avoiding
further administrative action with respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent
authorizes the Board to review and examine all investigative ﬁle materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the Relinquishment.
Furthermore, should this Relinquishment not be accepted by the Board, it is agreed that
presentation to and consideration of this Relinquishment and other documents and matters
by the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or any of its members from
further participation, consideration or resolution of this proceedings.

DATED this L}! day of

  
   
 

ounge A. Staton, .D.

STATE OF FLORI A
COUNTY OF: pom

Before me, personally appeared ‘7 ﬂ'm W0 , whose identity is known

to me by )[ml 1?“ g. .§ﬁ Z: i (type of identiﬁcation) and who, under oath,

acknowiedge that is/her signature appears above.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this #3 day of étlefﬂé 4 , 1992.
C 24g E 1‘2 D/ W

NOTARY PUBLIC
My Commission Expires: * ‘~

DITA" MIC mt: I' F
"V CMISSXGI EXP JUE 1:31;:
IOWED TMRU “Km "5. II. t

‘ STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

PETITIONER,

VS.
CASE NO. 89-09900

YOUNGER A. STATON, M.D.,

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT
COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
Younger A. Staten, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent,"
and alleges:
1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida

Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida

Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0003406. Respondent's last known address is 495
North Lake Way, Palm Beach, Florida 33480—3636.

3. From on or about April 29, 1985 until on or about April
28, 1986, Respondent was the treating physician for Patient #1, who

was suffering from bilateral uveitis.

 

 

4. On or about April 29, 1985, during the initial examination
of Patient #1, a 38 year old female, Respondent failed to conduct
a full dilated examination of Patient #1'5 eyes.

5. Respondent failed to record Patient {1's medical history
during the initial examination.

6. On or about April 29, 1985, Respondent failed to order a
complete workup for autoimmune and/or infectious diseases based
upon the severity of Patient #1's uveitis.

7. In the alterative, on or about April 29, 1985, Respondent
failed to refer Patient #1 to an infectious disease specialist or

rheumatologist.

8. On or about April 29, 1985, Respondent failed to perform
a visual acuity or intraocular pressure check on Patient #1.

9. On or about April 29, 1985, Respondent failed to record
in Patient #l's medical records directions for the use of
Blephamide which Respondent had prescribed that day to Patient
#1.

10. On or about July 22, 1985, Respondent failed to perform
a visual acuity or intraocular pressure check on Patient #1 despite
the fact that intraocular pressure can be increased in patients
with uveitis.

11. On or about July 22, 1985, Respondent failed to conduct
a full dilated examination of Patient fl's eyes.

12. On or about July 29, 1985, Respondent failed to perform

a visual acuity or intraocular pressure check on Patient #1.

13. On or about July 29, 1985, Respondent failed to conduct
a full dilated examination of Patient #l's eyes.

14. On or about July 29, 1985, Respondent failed to record
in Patient #1'5 medical records directions for the use of
Blephamide which Respondent had prescribed that day to Patient #1.

15. On or about February 26, 1986, Respondent failed to
perform a visual acuity or intraocular pressure check on Patient

#1.

16. On or about February 26, 1986, Respondent‘s records for
Patient #1 lacked the standardized notations or abbreviations for
which eye was being checked and/or whether or not it was with
correction or without correction.

17. On or about February 26, 1986, Respondent failed to use
standardized notations or abbreviations in Patient #1'5 medical
records for which eye was being checked and whether or not it was
with correction, without correction or with best correction.

18. On or about March 5, 1986, Respondent failed to perform
a visual acuity or intraocular pressure check or funduscopic
examination on Patient #1.

19. On or about March 19, 1986, Respondent failed to perform
a visual acuity or intraocular pressure check on Patient #1.

20. On or about April 28, 1986, Respondent first noted
cataracts, greater in the left eye than the right, however
Respondent failed to perform an intraocular pressure check on

Patient #1.

21. Respondent failed to properly assess Patient fl's
ophthalmic or medical condition during the course of treatment.

22. The medical records kept by Respondent with regard to
Patient #1 are incomplete and substandard in notation and fail to
justify the treatment choices as well as failing to indicate follow
up of the hotential side effects of such treatment choices.

QQQEI_QH£
23. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

through twenty—two (22), above, as if fully set forth herein this

Count One.

24. Respondent failed to practice medicine with an acceptable
level of care, skill and treatment which is recognized by a
reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under
similar conditions and circumstances when the Respondent failed to
conduct full dilation of Patient #l's eyes, failed to order a
complete work—up for autoimmune or infectious diseases, failed to
perform visual acuity or intraocular pressure check, failed to note
cataracts until April 1986, failed to properly assess Patient fl's
ophthalmic or medical condition, failed to record prescription
directions and/or failed to maintain medical records justifying the

course of treatment for Patient #1.

25. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated Section
458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes (1985), by gross or repeated
malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that level of
care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably

prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar

conditions and circumstances in that Respondent failed to properly
assess Patient #1'5 ophthalmic or medical condition during the
course of treatment.

COUNT TW

26. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty-two (22) and twenty—four (24), above, as if fully
set forth herein this Count Two.

27. Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of the patient, including, but
not limited to, patient histories; examination results; test
results, records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or administered;
and reports of consultations and hospitalizations when Respondent
failed to record prescription directions, failed to note which eye
was examined and whether it was with correction, without correction
or best correction, and/or failed to reflect whether side effects
of the medications were discussed with Patient #1.

28. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated Section
458.331(1)(m), Florida statutes (1985), by failing to keep written
medical records justifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including but not limited to, patient histories, examination
results, and test results.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine to enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent‘s license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an

administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.
Signed this ('2 day of gﬁﬂi , 1992.

George Stuart
Secre ary

 
   

 

  

I

Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR THE DEPARTMENT:

Mary B. Radkins F I L E D

Senior Attorney Department of Professional Regu‘aﬁon
Dept. of Professional Regulation AGENCYCLERK

1940 North Monroe street (
Northwood Centre, Ste. 60 we
Tallahassee, FL 32399~o792 0L,,’*"

(904) 488-0062
Florida Bar #365041 CLERK

PCP: March 11, 1992 DATE 3/20 ’9

Murray, Basisht, Rodriquez

 

LM:MBR:pc

