FILED

Department of Professional Regulation
AGE CY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULM'IO .
BOARD OF MEDICIN éjva
W//”’/

 

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL CLERK
REGULATION, I
. . DATE ‘ "'
Petltloner,
v. DPR CASE NUMBER: 89-00405

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0035779
DONALD H. DEHAVEN, M.D., -

Respondent.

/

_______._____———-—————-

FINAL ORDER

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on September 20;‘1991, in
Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in
the above—styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent
Agreement, the documents submitted in support thereof, the
arguments of the parties, and. being otherwise advised in the
premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the

Consent Agreement.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Department.

(Kr
DONE AND ORDERED this Q{_)__ day {ZQZC’ (m éeC , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

 

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE A“
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U. S. Mail to Donald DeHaven, M. D.
3001 Eastland Boulevard, #3A, Clearwater, Florida 3462;2325eph
Donahey, Esquire, Building C, Suite 501—A, 2454 McMullen Booth
Road, Clearwater, Florida 34619 and by interoffice delivery to
Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney, Department of

Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe

Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399— 0792, at or before 5. 00 P. M.,

this a m day of 3862;:&1 1991.

; 1:335” a.

1“]?

 
      

L
.f"

 

DOROTHY Ji ?AIRCLOTH
Executive Director

further participation, consideration or resolution of these

proceedings.

SIGNED thisiz day of

 

DO A D HARRY DeHAVEN, M.D.

Sworn to and subscribed
rlbefore me this 21‘; day

 

of b“)3Q:V , 1991.
SJHS Q, gsmrjkyﬁ
NOTARY UBLIC

My Commission Expires: W“5J‘5

APPROVED this '30 day of [(66% , ;991.

Gborge Stuart

 

( X700 ﬂ)

V

PROVISIGNS REGARDING MONITORING/SUPERVISING PHYSICIANS
_____________.______________________________________
(Revised 08/22/91)

Provisions governing physicians ordered to work under

supervision of monitoring or supervising physicians.

I. DEFINITIONS.

 

A. INDIRECT SUPERVISION is supervision by a
monitoring physician (monitor) whose responsibilities are set by
the Board. Indirect supervision does not require that the
monitor practice on the same premises as the Respondent, however,
the monitor shall practice within a reasonable geographic.
proximity to Respondent, which shall be within 20 miles unless
otherwise provided by the Board and shall be readily available

for consultation. The monitor shall be Board-certified in the
Respondent's specialty area, unless otherwise provided by the
Board.

B. DIRECT SUPERVISION is supervision by a
superyising physician (supervisor) whose responsibilities are set
by the Board. Direct supervision requires that the supervisor
and Respondent work in the same office. The supervising
physician shall be Board-certified in the Respondent's specialty
area, unless otherwise provided by the Board.

C. PROBATION COMMITTEE or "committee" are membefs of

the Board of Medicine designated by the Chairman of the Board to

serve as the Probation Committee.

II. STANDARD TERMS.
A. REQUIRED SUPERVISION.

l. The Respondent shall not practice medicine
without an approved monitot/supervisor, as specified by the
Consent Agreement, unless otherwise ordered by the Board.

2. The monitor/supetvisor must be»a licensee
under Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, in good standing and without
restriction or limitation on his license. In addition, the Beard
or Committee may reject any proposed monitor/supervisor on the
basis that he has previously been subject to any disciplinary
action against his medical license in this or any other
jurisdiction, is currently under investigation, or is the subject
of a pending disciplinary action. The monitor/supervisor must be

actively engaged in the same or similar specialty area unless

otherwise provided by the Board or Committee. The Board or
Committee may also reject any proposed monitor/supervisor for
good eause shown.

B. MECHANISM FOR APPROVAL OF MONITORl§UPERVISORz

l. TEMPORARY APPROVAL. The Board confers

authority on the Chairman of the Board's Probation Committee to
temporarily apptove Respondent's mohitor/supervisor. To obtain
this temporary approval, Respondent shall submit to the
Department's attorney the name and curriculum vitae of the

proposed monitor/supervisor prior to the time that the Consent

Agreement is considered by the Board. The Chairman of the

Probation Committee shall consider the proposed monitor/supervisor and
the Respondent shall be notified of the decision within five (5)

days. Once a Final Order adopting this Consent Agreement is

filed, Respondent shall have ten (10) days to obtain approval of

the monitor/supervisor, after which Respondent shall not practice
medicine without an approved monitor/supervisor. Iemporary

approval shall only remain in effect until the next meeting of

the Probation Committee.

2. FORMAL APPROVAL

a. Respondent shall have the monitor/
supervisor with him at his first probation appearance before the
Probation Committee. Prior to consideration of the monitor/

supervisor by the Committee, the Respondent shall provide to the

monitor/supervisor a copy of the Administrative Complaint and

Final Order filed in this case. Respondent shall submit a
current curriculum vitae and a description of current practice

from the proposed monitor/supervisor to the Board office no later
than fourteen days before the Respondent's first scheduled

probation appearance.

b. Respondent's monitor/supervisor shall
also appear before the Probation Committee and at such other
times as directed by the Committee. It shall be Respondent's

responsibility to ensure the appearance of his monitor/supervisor

as directed. Failure of the monitor/supervisor to appear as

directed shall constitute a violation of the terms of this

‘.

CT.)

(:3
(ﬂ

Stipulation and shall subject the Respondent to disciplinary

action.

3. CHANGE IN MONITOR/SUPERVISOR. In the event
that the Respondent's monitor/supervisor is unable or unwilling
to fulfill his responsibilities as‘a monitor/supervisor as
despribed above, then the Respondent shall immediately advise the-e

Board of this fact. Respondent shall immediately submit to the

Chairman of the Board's Probation Crmmittee, the name of a

temporary monitor/supervisor for consideration. Respondent shall

not practice pending approval of this temporary .-.

monitor/supervisor by the Chairman of the Probation Committee.

Furthermore, Respondent shall make arrangements with his

Committee at its next regularly scheduled meeting, for
consideration of the monitor/supervisor by the Committee.

Respondent shall only practice under the auspices of the

new monitor/supervisor shall be addressed.

c. CONTINUITY OF PRACTICE
M

l. TOLLING PROVISIONS. In the event the‘
__________________

of medicine in the State of Florida, then certain provisions of

Re5pondent’s probation (and only those provisions of the
probation) shall be tolled as enumerated below and shall remain

in a tolled status until Respondent returns to active practice in

the State of Florida.

a. The time period of probation shall be

tolled.

b. The provisions regarding supervision

whether direct or indirect by another physician, and required
reports from the monitor/supervisor shall be tolled.

c. The provisions regarding preparation
of investigative reports detailing compliance with this

Stipulation shall be tolled.

2. ADDRESSES. Respondent must keep current

residence and business addresses on file with the Board.

\

Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (10) days of any

changes of said addresses. Furthermore, Respondent shall notify
the Beard with ten (10) days in the event that Respondent leaves

the active practice of medicine in Florida.

3. ACTIVE PRACTICE. In the event that

 

Respondent leaves the active practice of ﬁedicine for a period of
one year or more, the Probation Cdmhittee may require Respondent
to appear before the Probation Committee and demonstrate his
ability to practice medicine with skill and safety to patients
prior to resuming the practice of medicine in this State.

D. COSTS. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to

comply with the terms of this Consent Agreement. Such costs
include, but are not limited to, the test of preparation of
Investigative Reports detailing compliance with the terms of the
Consent Agreement, and the Board's administrative costs directly
associated with Respondent's probation.

E. BOARD ADDRESS. Unlesé‘btherwise directed by the

Board office, all reports, correspondence and inquiries shall be
sent to: Board of Medicine, 1940 N. Monroe St., Tallahassee,

Florida 32399-0792, Attn.: Final Order Compliance

C“
‘ .1.
CL"?
C31?

CT 1

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

PETITIONER,

vs. CASE NO. 89-00405
DONALD H. DeHAVEN, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
__W________________/

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional

Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this
/Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against

DONALD H. DeHAVEN, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent,"

and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating

the Rractice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida

statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida

Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued

license number ME 0035779. Respondent’s last known address is 3001

Eastland Blvd., #3A, Clearwater, Florida 34621.

3. On or about January 9, 1989, Patient #1 presented to the

emergency room via ambulance as a seventy-eight (78) year old

female with a history of diabetes, hypertension , weakness and

'vomiting over the past several days, and an injury to her right

1

v

C?

'CH

C”
C

ankle.

4. The emergency room physician’s diagnosis was diabetic

acidosis and fractured right ankle.

5. During Patient #l's course of treatment in the emergency

room, two EKGS were given, the results of which were attached to

Patient #1’5 chart.

6. The EKG changes indicated an evolving anterior myocardial

infarctionc

7. The emergency room physician subsequently admitted

Patient #1 to the Intensive Care Unit (I.C.U.) with orders for an

insulin drip and one daily EKG.

8. On or about January 10, 1989, Respondent first saw

Patient #1 on the day of her admission to I.C.U.

9. At the time Respondent first saw Patient #1, the

emergency room EKGs were attached to Patient #l's chart.
10. The Respondent initially recorded Patient #1’5 physical
examiﬁation as revealing a regular heart rate and rhythm.
11. Respondent’s diagnosis at this point was poorly

controlled diabetes mellitus, a fractured ankle, nausea secondary
to diabetes, and possible gastroenites.

12. Respondent further stated in a progress note that same
day that Patient #1 was developing congestive heart failure in
response to fluids administered during her course of treatment, aha
had low blood pressure and low urine output.

13. Respondent.subsequently ordered a one time administration

of twenty (20) milligrams of Lasix, a repeat chest x—ray and an

order for cefobid. No orders for serial cardiac enzymes or further

EKGs were given at this time.

14. During the entire course of Respondent’s initial

diagnoses and treatment of Patient #1, Respondent failed to

interpret Patient #l’s EKG results attached to her chart.

_15. The non-subtle changes oh’ Patient #1'57 EKG results 1

indicated an evolving anterior myocardial infarction and is well
within a board certified family practitioner’s realm of

recognition.

16. On or about January 11, 1989, Respondent noted‘Patient
#1 had a grade 3/6 cardiac murmur, but still made no mention of the
EKG results.

17. Respondent then consulted an orthopedist regarding
Patient #l’s ankle. The orthopedist saw Patient #1 and tentatively

scheduled her for surgery the following day.

18. Subsequently, an anesthesiologist saw Patient #1 and

noted she had a grade 3/6 cardiac murmur and interpreted Patient

#1’s EKG results as indicative of atrial fibrillation with possible

right bundle branch block.

19. Accordingly, on or about January 12, 1989, Patient #l's
surgery was cancelled and she was transferred to the floor unit
that same day.

20. On or about January 14, 1989, a physician covering for
Respondent noted Patient #1 was in moderate respiratory distress,

had a blood pressure of 98/80, her lungs had rales one-third (1/3)

of the way up, and she still had the cardiac murmur.

{zwux9

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
DOAH CASE N0.; 91—004780

vs. __DPR CASE NO.: 89-000405

DONALD HARRY DeHAVEN, H.D.,

Respondent.

/

__________________________________
CONSENT AGREEMENT

DONALD HARRY DeHAVEN, M.D., referred to as the

"Respondent", and the Department of Professional Regulation,

referred to as "Department", stipulate and agree to the following

Consent Agreement and to the entry of a Final Order of the Board

of Medicine, referred to as "Board", incorporating this Consent

Agreement and the agreement in this matter.

STIPULATED FACTS

 

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a

licensed physician in the State of Florida having been issued

license number ME 00035779.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with

violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules

enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the

Administrative Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

L“!

4U

u

21. The covering physician consulted a cardiologist who
diagnosed Patient #1 as having sustained 21 recent. myocardial

infarction complicated with congestive heart failure, atrial

fibrillation, borderline hypotension and renal insufficiency.
22. Patient #1 was treated aggressively from this time
forward, however, her condition cohtinued to deteriorate and she-“
subsequently expired on or about January 18, 1989.
QQENTmONE
23. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

through twenty—two (22) above, as if fully set forth henein this

Count One.

24. The Respondent failed to practice medicine with that

level of care, skill and treatment which a reasonably prudent

similar physician recognizes as acceptable under similar conditions
ahd circumstances in that Respondent ggiled to adequately examine,
diagnose and treat Patient #1’s evolving myocardial infarction and
seconaary complications by failing to interpret the EKG results on
Patient #l’s chart. Furthermore, Respondent failed to recognize

.the significance of Patient #l’s cardiac murmur, comma and failed

to adequately explain Patient #1’s hypotehsion.

25. Based upon the foregoing; ﬁespondent has violated Section
458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, by gross or repeated malpractice
or the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar

physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and

circumstances.

‘x

P '3.-
V, ,,

\ ”VJ

.WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the
Board of Medicine enter an Order jmmosing one or more of the
following penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's
license, restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of

an administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any ether relief that the Board .'

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this 23C) day of

George art
Secretary

      

y G. cPherson,
Chlef Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry McPherson, Jr.
Senior Attorney

Bar #788643

Department of Professional

Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street P
u . ‘ I
Tallahassee, Florida 32399 0750 1 L E D
LAQP/TK/tb f... . amt of Professional Regulation
Burt and Campbell ‘</ ZL)'2
. ’ H 0/

 

UNITED STATES
POSYAL SERVICE

 

Certified Fee

   

Special Delivery Fee —
Restricted Delivery Fee —
Return Receipt Showmg

Io Whom & Dale Delivered

Return Receipt Showing to Whom,
Date, & Address of Delivery

 
    
      

    
 

 

   
 
  
  

7 TOTAL Postage
o" 8. Fees

P BBL! 32? H5]:

Receipt for
~ Certified Mail

w No Insurance Coverage Provided

Do not use for International Mail
aﬁee Reverse)

 

      
 
 

F El? 68? NEE

Certified Mail Receipt

' No Insurance Coverage Provided

' not use for International Mail
_M DO

UNHED SYATES
POSTAL SERVICE

(See Reverse)

   

 

I ‘ ._ -
Street & N0,
PO . State & ZIP Code
Certified Fee
Spemal Dehvery Fee -

Restricted Delivery Fee -
Return Receipt Showmg
to Whom & Date Delivered

Return Receipt Showing to Whom,
Date, 8. Address of Delivery

  
      
 
                
   

P 3714 78!] 59:5

Receipt for
Certified Mail

w No Insurance Coverage Provided

UNITED SYATES
SERVICE

Do not use for International Mail
(See Reverse)

POSYAL

 

Street and No

 
    
 

Certified Fee

Spemal Dehvery f

 
  
   

Restricted Delivery

   
 

'— Retum Receipt Sh0\
G) to Whom & Date De '13

 
 

Return Receipt Show
Date, and Addressee’

TOTAL Postage
& Fees

 
 
   

  
 

Postmark or Date

  

S Form 3800, June 19

3.~ Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations

of fact contained in the Administrative Complaint.

STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and

458, Florida Statutes, and the juriSdiction of the Department and

the Board.

\
2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute violations
of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the

Administrative Complaint.

STIPULATED DISPOSITION

 

1. FUTURE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the future

 

violate Chapter 455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules

promulgated pursuant thereto.

2. FINE. The Board shall impose an administrative fine

 

in the amount of $3,000. against the Respondent. The fine shall
be paid by the Respondeht to the Executive Director of the Board
within 30 days of its imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. REPRIMAND. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand

 

from the Board of Medicine.

4. PROBATION.‘ Effective on the date of the filing of
the Final Order incorporating the terms of this Stipulation,

Respondent's license to practice medicine shall be placed on

probation for a period of 2 years.

A. RESTRICTIONS DURING PROBATION. During the period

of probation, Respondent's license shall be restricted, as

follows:

i. INDIRECT SUPERVISION. Respondent shall

 

practice only under the indirect supervision of a Board-approved
physician hereinafter referred to as the "monitor". In this
regard, Respondent shall allow the denitor access to Respondent's

medical records, calendar, patient logs or other documents

necessary for the monitor to supervise respondent as detailed
below.

B. OBLIGATIONS/REQUIREMENTé OF PROBATION. eggring
the period of probation, Respondent shall comply with the
following obligations and requirements:

i. APPEARANCES. Respondent shall appear

 

before the Probation Committee of the Board of Medicine at the
first Committee meeting after probation commences; at the last
meeting of the Committee preceding scheduled termination of the

probation; and, at such other times as requested by the
Committee. Respondent shail be noticed by the Board staff of the
date, time and place of the Committee meeting whereat
Respondent's appearance is required. Failure of Respondent to
appear as requested or directed shall be considered a violation
of the terms of this Stipulation, and shall subject the
Respondent to disciplinary action.

ii. CONTINUING MEDICAL EDUCATION. Respondent

shall attend 50 hours of Category 1, Continuing Medical

Education courses, ten hours shall be in the area of risk

management, forty hours shall be in the area of family practice,
however such family practice courses shall include a cardiology
component. Respondent shall submit a written plan to the
Chairman of the Probation Committee for course approval prior to
the-completion of said courses. The Board confers authority on
the Chairman of the Probation Committee to approve or disapprove
said courses. In addition, Respondent shall submit documentation
of completion of these courses in his required reports. These
hours shall be in addition to those hours required for renewal of
licensure. Unless otherwise approved by the Board or the
Chairman of the Probation Committee said courses shall consist of
a formal live lecture format.

iii. RESPONSIBILITY FOR MONITOR'S REPORTS AND

APPEARANCES. Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that

 

the monitor submits all required reports, and appears before the
Probation Committee as required and directed. Failure of the
Respondent to ensure that the monitor submits required reports or
makes required appearances shall constitute a violation of this
Stipulation and may subject the Respondent to disciplinary
action.

C. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE MONITORING PHYSICIAN.

The monitor shall:

i. RECORDS REVIEW. Review 25% percent of

 

Respondent's active patient records of those patients: suffering

from cardiac problems or who have received an electrocardiogram;
and shall review admissions and discharge summaries of 252 of

Respondent‘s hospitalized patients. Such review shall occurr at
least once a month, for the purpose of ascertaining if Respondent
is meeting the standard of care and maintaining adequate medical

records. In this regard Respondent shall maintain a log

documenting all such patients, and shall obtain copies of the
admission and discharge summaries of hospitilized patients. The
monitor shall go to Respondent's office once every month and
shall review Respondent's calendar and patient log, and shall
select the records to be reviewed.
ii.REPORTS FROM MONITOR. Submit reports on a
quarterly basis, in affidavit form, which shall include:
a) A brief statement of why Respondent is
on probation.
b) A description of Respondent's practice
(type and composition).
c) A statement addressing Respondent's
compliance with the terms of probation.
d) A brief description of the monitor's
relationship with the Respondent.
e) A statement advising the Board of any
problems which have arisen.

f) A summary of the dates the monitor went

to Respondent's office, the number of

records reviewed, and the overall

quality of the records reviewed.

iii. CONTACT. Maintain contact with Respondent
on a frequency of at least cnce per month. In the event that the
monitor is not timely contacted by Respondent, then the monitor
shall immediately report this fact £5 the Board, in writing.

iv. APPEARANCES. Respondent's monitor shall
appear before the Probation Committee at the first meeting of
said committee following commencement of the probation, and at

such other times as directed by the Committee. -—-

D. REPORTS FROM RESPONDENT. The Respondent shall
submit quarterly reports, in affidavit form, the contents of
which may be further specified by the Board, but which shall
include:

i. A brief statement of why Respondent is on
probation.
ii. A description of practice location.
iii. A description of current practice (type and
composition).
iv. A brief statement of compliance with
probationary‘terms.
v. A description of the relationship with
monitoring physician.
vi. A statement advising the Board of any

problems which have arisen.

..5

CD
W
63.:
C3

sJ

vii. A statement addressing compliance with any
restrictibns or requirements imposed.

E. STANDARD PROVISIONS. Respondent's probation
shall be governed by the attached "provision; regarding
monitoring/supervising physicians", Exhibit B, which is
incorporated as if fully set forth herein.

6. It is expressly understood that this'Consent
Agreement is subject to the approval of the Board and the
Department. In this regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only
the foregoing paragraphs) shall have no force or effect-unless a
Final Order is entered incorporating the terms of this Consent
Agreement, by the Board.

7. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the
meeting of the Board where this Consent Agreement is considered.

Respondent, in conjunction with the consideration of this Consent
Agreement by the Board, shall respond to questions under oath
from the Board, Board Staff or Department Staff.

8. Should this Consent Agreement be rejected, no
statement made in furtherance of this Consent Agreement, by the
Respondent may be used as direct evidence against the Respondent
in any proceeding; however, such statements may be used by the
Petitioner for impeachment purposes.

9. Respondent and the Department fully understand that

this Consent Agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating

same will in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board

0868138

and/or the Department against the Respondent for acts or
omissions not specifically set forth in the Administrative

Complaint attached as Exhibit "A" herein.

10. Upon the Board's adoption of this Consent Agreement,
Respondent expressly waives all further procedural steps, and
expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or te.7

otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the Consent

Agreement and the Final Order of the Board incorporating said

Consent Agreement.

11. Upon the Board's adoption of this Consent Agreement,
the parties hereby agree that each party will hear his owh
attorney's fees and costs resulting from prosecution or defense
of this matter. Respondent waives the right to seek any

attorney's fees or costs from the Department in connection with

this matter.

12. This Consent Agreement is executed by the Respondent
for the purpose of avoiding further administrative action with
respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the
Board to review and examine all investigative file materials and
other materials concerning Respondent prior to or in conjunction
with consideration of the Consent Agreement. Furthermore, should
this Consent Agreement not be accepted by the Board, it is agreed
that presentation to and consideration of this Consent Agreement

and other documents and matters by the Board shall not unfairly

or illegally prejudice the Board or any of its members from

(:3
7:)
C"

