Fig;

Department of Professional Ragtime»
' AGENCY CLERK

DEPARTMENT op PROFESSIONAL REGULATIour’ .
. BOARD OF MEDICINE ZL)OQ9q_.———"

 

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL GLRK

REGULATION, D 019 1
Petitioner, DATE

V. DPR CASE NUMBER: 89-09835

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0024182
ROBERT S. CROMARTIE, III, M.D.,

Respondent.

/
FINAL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on October 2, 1992, in
Miami, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement (attached-
hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the above-
styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent Agreement, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the

parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises, the Board
rejected the Consent Agreement proposed and offered an amendment at
the hearing, which amendment was accepted without objection by the
parties.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein with the following change:

1. Paragraph 3 of the stipulated Disposition is deleted.

2. within two (2) years of the filing of the Final Order,
the Respondent shall complete 100 hours of Continuing Medical
Education, 10 hours shall be in the area of risk management and 90

hours in the area of medical complications in surgical patients.

These hours shall be in addition to those hours required for
renewal of licensure. Accordingly, the parties shall adhere to and
abide by all of the terms and conditions of the Consent Agreement.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department.

DONE AND ORDERED this 421—66213)! @wbed , 1992.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

”(—7

ZACHARI . ZA IAH, H.D.
CHAIRMAN

CERT FI T VI

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Robert S. Cromartie,
III, M.D. 588 Sterthaus Avenue, Ormond Beach, Florida 32174, Kim
E. Bouck, Esquire, 605 South Ridgewood Avenue, Daytona Beach,
Florida 32114 and by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson,
Jr., chief Medical Attorney, Department of Professional Regulation,
Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe Street,Ta11ahassee, Florida

32399-0792, at or before 5:00 P. M., this :2 %b day «Of

M11992- g: E W

DOROTHY J. FAIRCLOTH
Executive Director

‘ QQQEJLQEE
14. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one

(1) through thirteen (13) as if fully set forth herein this Count

One.

15. Respondent failed to practice medicine with an
acceptable level of skill, care hﬁd treatment in that Respondent
failed to take Patient {1’s glucose level or otherwise monitor
Patient {1's blood sugar level from on or about November 13, 1987,
to on or about November 19, 1987; Respondent failed to obtain a
cardiology or internal medical consult for Patient #1; Respondent
failed to order or obtain a post-operative electrocardiogram (EKG)
on Patient #1 prior to Patient {1’s cardiac arrest.

16. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Sectioh
458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, by gross or repeated malpractice
or the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and

circumstances.

QQDEI_IEQ

17. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through thirteen (13) and fifteen (15) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

18. Respondent failed to maintain adequate records of
Patient ll’s cardiac evaluation and diabetic status.

19. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, by failing to keep written medical

records justifying the course of treatment of the patient,

.—'\-"‘“

u g~>~~

including, hut not limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or
administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations.
WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board
of Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

/ //
SIGNED this // day of ,Vddcawac , 1991.

George Stuart
Secretary

 

./ 1

./ BY Larry G. Me erson, Jr.
Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr. F l L E D

Chief Medical Attorney Departmentof Proless' .
Department of Professional AGENCY CS3: Regmam"
Regulation (
1940 North Monroe Street 000.
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750 0%
(904) 488-0062 V’
CLERK

 

LAQP/M/ecs 4mm

PCP: Nov. 8, 1991
Burt, Basisht, & Campbell

a...‘-

Lv’w‘b.4

. STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT or PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

V. DOAH CASE NO. 92-0250
DPR CASE NO. 89-09335

ROBERT S. CROMARTIE, III, H.D.,

Respondent.

I
CONSENT AGREEMENT

 

Robert S. Cromartie, III, M.D., referred to as the
"Respondent", and the Department of Professional Regulation,
referred to as "Department", stipulate and agree to the following
Agreement and to the entry of a Final Order of the Board of
Medicine, referred to as "Board", incorporating the stipulated
Facts and stipulated Disposition in this matter.

S ULAT ACTS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed
physician in the State of Florida having been issued license number
KB 0024182.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida statutes, and the rules enacted
pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative

Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of

fact contained in the Administrative Complaint.

‘ §Il2ELAI§Q_QQE§LQ§LQE§_QE_LAE

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458,
Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department and the
Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute violations of
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative

Complaint.
STIPULATED DISPO§ITION

1. FQIUBE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the future
violate Chapters 455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto.

2. HIRE; The Board shall impose an administrative fine in
the amount of $1,000 against the Respondent. The fine shall be
paid by the Respondent to the Board of Medicine within thirty (30)
days of its imposition by Final order of the Board.

[b&di . CQMMQNITY §ERVICE: Respondent shall perform fifty (50)
K6::;dbf community service within one year of a final order of the
Board. Community service shall consist of the delivery of medical
services directly to patients, without fee or cost to the
patient,for the good of the people of the state of Florida. Such
community service shall be performed at a county health facility or
at a location to be approved by the Probation Committee.
Respondent shall submit a written plan for performance and
completion of the community service to the Probation Committee for

approval prior to performance of said community service.

Affidavits detailing the completion of community service
requirements shall be filed with the Board annually.

4. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject
to the approval of the Board and the Department. In this regard,
the foregoing paragraphs {rnd only the foregoing paragraphs) shall
have no force and effect unless a Final Order incorporating the
terms of this Agreement is entered by the Board.

5. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting of
the Board where this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in
conjunction with the consideration of this Agreement by the Board,
shall respond to questions under oath from the Board, Board Staff
or Department staff.

6. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by the Respondent may be used as
direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding; however,
such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment
purposes.

7. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this
joint Agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will
in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board and/or the
Department against the Respondent for acts or omissions not
specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as
Exhibit "A" herein.

8. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreement, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps, and expressly waives

all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or

contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Agreement.

9. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will bear his own attorney’s fees and
costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's fees or costs
from the Department in connection with this matter.

10. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of theV
Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by
the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or

any of its members from further participation, consideration or

resolution of these proceedings.

smao this 2‘” day or L, 1992.

W

(Respondent's Name)

Before me, personally appoarod :ﬂﬁ gcm n "A
whoa. idcncity is known to me by aFﬁaﬂ ’
(typo of idontification) and who, un at out , ac now a gas t at

gillher signature appears above.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this ﬁday
of m, 1992- .—.

.4 -.,.L-‘~'__ ..-

- n "x".

NOTARY 9mm . V: .
uuuynnng5nuolnuﬂu 3_"’ n__:
My Commission mitsuncmzwumnlm - -

WV“ "q“...hﬂmu

  
 
  
   

APPROVED this M day or

Georg. Stuart
secretar

By- ry G. McPherson, Jr.
chin! Attornny
Hodical Section

 
   

_',4,,~

STANDARD PROVISIONS

A. COSTS. Respondent shall pay all costs
necessary to comply with the terms of this Consent Agreement. Such
costs include, but are not limited to, the costs of preparation of
Investigative Reports detailing compliance with the terms of the
Consent Agreement, and the Board’s administrative costs directly

associated with Respondent’s probation.
8. BOARD ADDRESS. Unless otherwwge directed by

the Board office, all reports, correspondence and inquiries shall
be sent to: Board of Medicine, 1940 North Monroe Street,
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792, Attn: Final Order Compliance

Officer.

FA—r—r-r

Uuu‘u-_-

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
v. CASE NO. 8909835
ROBERT S. CROHARTIE, III, M.D.

Respondent.

ADMINISTRAIIVE COMPLAINI
COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional

Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner", and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
Robert S. Cromartie, III, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent", and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with
regulating the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30,
Florida Statutes, Chapter 455, Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458,
Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been
issued license number ME 0024182. Respondent’s last known address
is 588 Sterthaus Avenue, Ormond Beach, Florida 32174.

3. On or about November 13, 1987, Respondent ordered a
preadmission blood glucose level be taken from Patient #1 which
revealed a glucose level of 104 mq/dl.

4. On or about November 16, 1987, Respondent admitted

n'e-«A.« 1

Patient #1, a fifty-seven (57) year old female, to Ormond Beach
Memorial Hospital with complaints of chronic pain in her right foot
and a history of peripheral vascular disease and diabetes mellitus.

5. On or about November 16, 1987, Respondent performed
an aortoiliofemoral arteriogram with bilateral run-off on Patient
#1 which revealed subtotal occlusion of the distal right
superficial femoral artery.

6. On or about November 17, 1987, Respondent performed
a right femoral—distal popliteal bypass on Patient #1.

7. Patient #1 experienced a moderately complicated post-
operative recovery, with nausea, use of a nasogastric tube, and
I.V.'s.

8. On or about November 19, 1987, Patient #1 suffered‘
a cardiac arrest and eventually expired the next day.

9. Patient {1's blood glucose level taken at the time
of Patient #1’5 arrest was 1143 mg/dl.

10. From on or about November 13, 1937, to on or about
November 19, 1987, Respondent failed to take Patient {1's glucose
level or otherwise monitor Patient {1’s blood sugar level.

11. Respondent failed to obtain a cardiology or internal
medical consult for Patient #1.

12. Respondent failed to order a post-operative
electrocardiogram (EKG) on Patient #1 prior to Patient [1’s cardiac
arrest.

13. Respondent failed to maintain adequate records of

Patient {1's cardiac evaluation and diabetic status.

nL—‘J'

