FILED

Department of Professional Regulation
AGENCY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONA REéE’ I0(/ -
BOARD OF MEDI / A/LQZOLI'Iﬂ,A

 

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL QiRK
REGULATION, C?!
DATE ’ "
Petitioner,
v. DPR CASE NUMBER: 89-08417

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0042057
SANG KIM TRAN, M.D.,

Respondent.
/

FINAL ORDER

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on September 20)—1991, in
Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in
the ahove-styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent
Agreement, the documents submitted in support thereof, the
arguments of the parties, and being otherwise advised in the
premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the

Consent Agreement.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Department.

DONE AND ORDERED thls Al day 5c Q7?“ b0]; , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

ZAC AH P. ZACHARIAH, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

         

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE __
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Sang Kim Tran, M.D.,
554 lst Avenue North, St. Petersburg, Florida 33701-3702, and Julie
Gallagher, Esquire, Stowell, Anton & Kramer, P.O. Box 11059,
Tallahassee, Florida 32302 and by interoffice delivery to Larry
G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney, Department of

Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe

Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792, at or before 5:00 P.M.,

thlS day of , 1991.

  

Executive Director

that presentation to and consideration of this Consent Agreement
and other documents and matters by the Board shall not unfairly
or illegally prejudice the Board or any of its members from

further participation, consideration or resolution of these

proceedings.

SIGNED this 50 day of A'UG-UJ’T ', 1991.

 

    

SANG KIM TR N, M.D.

Sworn to and subscribed
befo
ofi

 
   

”v-7 "MM” ,...,...,-

'm‘irrlnu

APPROVED this 2 day of QZW , 1991.

George St
Sec etar

    

PROVISIONS REGARDING HONITORINCISUPEKVISING PHYSICIANS
(Revised 08/22/91)

Provisions governing physicians ordered to work under
supervision of monitoring or supervising physicians.

1. DEFINITIONS.
A. INDIRECT SUPERVISION'is supervision_by a

monitoring physician (monitor) whose responsibilities are set by

the Board. Indirect supervision does not require that the

moﬁitor practice on the same premises as the Respondent, however,

the monitor shall practice within a reasonable geographic

proximity to Respondent, which shall be within 20 miles unless
otherwise provided by the Board and shall be readily available
for consultation. The monitor shall be Board-certified in the

Respondent's specialty area, unless otherwise provided by the

Board.

B. DIRECT SUPERVISION is supervision by a

supervising physician (supervisor) whose responsibilities are set

by the Board. Direct supervision requires that the supervisor

and Respondent work in the same office. The supervising

physician shall be Board—eertified in the Respondent's specialty
area, unless otherwise provided by the Board.
' C. PROBATION COMMITTEE or "committee" are members of

the Board of Medicine designated by the Chairman of the Board to

serve as the Probation Committee.

0900\\

II. STANDARD TERMS.
A. REQUIRED SUPERVISION.

1. The Respondent shall not practice medicine

without an approved monitor/supervisor, as specified by the

Consent Agreement, unless otherwise ordered by the Board.

2. The monitor/supervisor must be a licensee
under Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, in good standing and without
restriction or limitation on his license. In addition, the Board-

or Committee may reject any proposed monitor/supervisor on the
basis that he has previously been subject to any disciplinary

action against his medical license in this or any other

jurisdiction, is currently under investigation, or is the subject

of a pending disciplinary action. The monitor/supervisor must be

actively engaged in the same or similar specialty area unless

otherwise provided by the Board or Committee. The Board or

Committee may also reject any proposed monitor/supervisor for

8

good cause shown.

B. MECHANISM FOR APPROVAL OF MONITOR/SUPERVISOR:
1. TEMPORARY APPROVAL. The Board confers
authority on the Chairman of the Board's Probation Committee to
temporarily approve Respondent's monitor/supervisor. To obtain

this temporary approval, Respondent shall submit to the

Department's attorney the name and curriculum vitae of the

proposed monitor/supervisor prior to the time that the Consent

Agreement is considered by the Board. The Chairman of the

059012

Probation Committee shall consider the proposed monitor/supervisor and
the Respondent shall be notified of the decision within five (5)

days. Once a Final Order adopting this Consent Agreement is

filed, Respondent shall have ten (10) days to obtain approval of

the monitor/supervisot, after which Respondent shall not practice

medicine without an approved monitorleupervisor. Temporary

approval shall only remain in effect until the next leeting of

the Probation Committee.
2. FORMAL APPROVAL

a. Respondent shall have the monitor/
supervisor with him at his first probation appearance before the
Probation Committee. Prior to consideration of the monitor/
supervisor by the Committee, the Respondent shall provide to the
monitor/supervisor a copy of the Administrative Complaint and
Final Order filed in this case. Respondent shall submit a

current curriculum vitae and a description of current practice
from the proposed monitor/supervisor to the Board office no later

than fourteen days before the Respondent's first scheduled

probation appearance.

b. Respondent's monitor/supervisor shall

also appear before the Probation Committee and at such other
times as directed by the Committee. It shall he Respondent'e
responsibility to ensure the appearance of his monitor/supervisor
as directed. Failure of the monitorlsupervisor to appear as

directed shall constitute a violation of the terms of this

0300\3

Stipulation and shall subject the Respondent to disciplinary
action.

3. CHANGE IN MONITOR/SUPERVISOR. In the event
that the Respondent's monitor/supervisor is unable or unwilling
to fulfill his responsibilities as a monitor/supervisor as
described above, then the Respondent ehall immediately advise the
Board of this fact. Respondent shall immediately submit to the
Chairman of the Board's Probation Committee, the name of a
temporary monitor/supervisor for consideration. Respondent shall
not practice pending approval of this temporary ‘—
monitor/supervisor by the Chairman of the Probation Committee.
Furthermore, Respondent shall make arrangements with his
temporary monitor/supervisor to appear before the Probation
Committee at its next regularly scheduled meeting, for
consideration of the monitor/supervisor by the Committee.
Respondent shall only practice under the auspices of the

temporary monitor/supervisor (approved by the Chairman) until the
next regularly scheduled meeting of the Probation Committee
whereat the issue of the Committee's approval of the Respondent's
new monitor/supervisor shall be addressed.
C. CONTINUITY OF PRACTICE

1. TOLLING PROVISIONS. In the event the-
Respondent leaves the State of Florida for a period of thirty
days or more or otherwise does not engage in the active practice

of medicine in the State of Florida, then certain provisions of

Respondent's probation (and only those provisions of the
probation) shall be tolled as enumerated below and shall remain
in a tolled status until Respondent returns to active practice in
the State of Florida.

a. The time period of probation shall be
tolled.

b. The provisions'regarding supervision
whether direct or indirect by another physician, and required

reports from the monitor/sﬁpervisor shall be tolled.

c. The provisions regarding preparation
of investigative reports detailing compliance with this

Stipulation shall be tolled.

2. ADDRESSES. Respondent must keep current
residence and business addresses on file with the Board.
Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (10) days of any
changes of said addresses. Furthermore, Respondent shall notify
the Board with ten (10) days in the event that Respondent leaves
the active practice of medicine in Florida.

3. ACTIVE PRACTICE. In the event that
Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine for a period of
one year or more, the Probation Committee may require Respondent
to appear before the Probation Committee and demonstrate his
ability to practice medicine with skill and safety to patients

prior to resuming the practice of medicine in this State.

D. COSTS. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to

 

n
.

comply with the terms of this Consent Agreement. Such costs
include, but are not limited to, the cost of preparation of
Investigative Reports detailing compliance with the terms of the
Consent Agreement, and the Board‘s administrative costs directly
associated with Respondent's probation.

E. BOARD ADDRESS. Unless'otherwise direqted by the

Board office, all reports, correspondence and-inqpiries shall be

sent to: Board of Medicine, 1940 N. Monroe St., Tallahassee,

Floridé 32399-0792, Attn.: Final Order Compliance

   

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL

REGULATION,

Petitioner, CASE NO. 8908417 7
v.

SANG KIM TRAN, M.D.,

Respondent

/

ADMINISTRATION COMPLAINT
COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional Regulation,
hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this Administrative Complaint before the
Board of Medicine against SANG KIM TRAN, M.D., hereinafter referred to as

"Respondent," and alleges:
‘1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the practice of

medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida Statutes, Chapter 455, Florida Statutes, and
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto a licensed
physician in the State of Florida, having been issued license number ME 0042057.
Respondent's last known address is 554 First Avenue, North, St. Petersburg, Florida)
33701-3702.

FACTS PERTAINING TO PATIENT ﬂ

3. Respondent examined and treated Patient #1, a thirty-five year old mentally

0300\7

 

disabled, obese female on or about February 3, 1989.

4. On or about February 3, 1989, Patient #1 advised Respondent that she had
been seen at another clinic, the day before, and was advised to see Respondent, due to

her high blood pressure of 180/100.

5. During this visit, Respondent tookVPatient #l's blood pressure as 152/ 102.

6. Respondent found Patient #l's abdomen to be soft and nontender.
7, Respondent prescribed an antihypertensive medication to Patient #1.
8. On or about February 7, 1989, Patient #1, following a spontaneous rupture

of membranes, was admitted to Bayfront Medical Center, and delivered a five (5) pound
eleven (11) ounce female.

9. During his examination of Patient #1, five days earlier, Respondent failed
to examine Patient #1‘s abdomen adequately, in that Respondent was unaware that
Patient #1 was pregnant.

10. Respondent failed to treat Patient #1'5 hypertension adequately, in that
Respondent‘s choice of medications was improper for a pregnant female. Respondent
seemed unconcerned for the progressive worsening of the hypertension.

11. Respondent failed to assess Patient #1 properly, in that Respondent
inadequately recorded Patient #1'5 medical history, and failed to perform a funduscopic
examination on Patient #1.

COUNT ONE

12. Petitioner realleges paragraphs one (1) through eleven (11) above as if fully
set forth herein this Count One.

13. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that level of care, skill, and
treatment, which a reasonably prudent similar physician would recognize as acceptable

2

QQOUtS

m h

under similar conditions and circumstances, in that Respondent failed to assess Patient
#1 properly, ignored the seriousness of the physical conditions, did not perform a
funduscopic examination on a hypertensive patient, inadequately recorded Patient #l‘s
medical history and performed an inadequately physical examination on Patient #1.

14. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, in that he is guilty of gross or repeztted malpractice or
failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill, ahd treatment which is
recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances.

COUNT TWO

15. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1) through eleven
(11), and thirteen (13) above, as if fully set forth herein this Count Two.

16. Respondent failed to keep written and/or legible medical records justifying
the course of treatment of the patient in that Respondent failed to adequately record
Patient #1'5 medical history.

17. Based on the foregoing, Respondent has violated Section 458.331(1)(m),
Florida Statutes, in that the Respondent failed to keep written and/or legible medical
records justifying the course of treatment of the patient, including, but not limited to
patient histories; examination results; test results; records of drugs prescribed; dispensed;
or administered, and reports of consultations and hospitalization.

FACTS PERTAINING TO PATIENT #2

18. Patient #2, a 60 year old severely diabetic male, with a left below-the—
knee amputation, developed cellulitis and an ulcer of his lower right leg.

19. On or about February 17, 1989, Patient #2 was seen by Respondent, who

3

000019

_ STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTHENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitionei,

vs. ppm CASE 110.: '91—003264
. mm CASE no.: .89—008417
sue x114 rm, u.n.,
Respondent.

/

CONSENT AGREEMENT-

 

SANG KIM TRAN, M.D., referred to as the "Respondent“, and
the Department of Professional Regulation, referred to as
"Department", stipulate and»agree to the following Consent
Agreement and to the entry of a Final Order of the Board of
Medicine, referred to as "Board", incorporating this Consent
Agreement and the agreement in this matter.

a STIPULAIED FACTS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a
licensed physician in the State of Florida having been issued
license number ME 0042057.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with,
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules

enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the

Administrative Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

000002

prescribed Keﬂex 250 mg. for cellulitis of the right lower leg.

20. Respondent saw Patient #2 from on or about February 17, 1989, through
July 15, 1989, and checked Patient #2‘5 blood sugar level each month.

21. On or about March 3, 1989, Respondent advised that the cellulitis had
cleared.

22. On or about July 10, 1989, Patient #2 informed Respohdent of a problem
with his (Patient #25) right foot.

23. Respondent requested that Patient #2, either come to his office, go to
Bayfront Medical Center Emergency Room, or go to the foot clinic. .-

24. Patient #2 did not seek treatment until on or about July 14, 1989, when
he came to Respondent's office, and Respondent referred him to a Podiatrist.

25. Patient #2 was admitted to Bayfront Medical Center on or about Ju1y 17,
1989, and had a right below-the—knee amputation on or about July 20, 1989.

26. Respondent failed to assess Patient #2 properly in that he did not recognize
the segiousness of infections in the lower extremities of a vascular-compromised diabetic
patient who had a previous amputation of the left lower extremity‘

27. Respondent failed to perform an adequate physical examination on Patient
#2, in that, Respondent inadequately recorded Patient #25 medical history and failed
to perform a funduscopic examination on Patient #2.

28. Respondent failed to order proper laboratory testing of Patient #2,'in that,
Patient #2'5 insulin was altered without documented blood sugar determination not
proper in regard to the insulin dosages.

29. Respondent's choice of medication was improper, in that Patient #2‘3
isordel and losix were prescribed without appropriate justification; in addition insulin was

4

030028

 

altered without documented blood sugar determinations.

COUNT THREE

30. Petitioner realleges one (1), two (2) and eighteen (18) through twenty-nine
(29) as if fully set forth herein this Count Three.

3]. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that level of care, skill, and
treatment which a reasonable prudent similar physician would recognize as acceptable
under similar conditions and circumstances, in that Respondent failed to assess Patient
#2 properly, ignored the seriousness of the physical conditions, did not perform a
funduscopic examination on a diabetic patient, inadequately recorded 'f’atient #2's
medical history, failed to coordinate proper medication, and improperly referred Patient
#2 to a Podiatrist when Patient #2 had seriously infected decubitus, resulting in the
eventual amputation of Patient #2's right leg.

32. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, in that he is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or
failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill, and treatment which is
recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances.

COUNT FOUR

33. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1), two (2), eighteen
(18) through twenty nine (29) and thirty—one (31), as if fully set forth herein this Count.
FOUL

34. The Respondent failed to keep written and/or legible medical records
justifying the course of treatment of the patient in that Respondent failed to adequately

5

03002\

 

record Patient #25 medical history.

35. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated Section 458.331(1)(m),
Florida Statutes, in that the Respondent failed to keep written and/or legible medical
records justifying the course of treatment of the patient, including, but not limited to
ﬁati'ent histories; examination results; test results; records of drugs prescribed; dispensed;
or administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of Medicine enter
an Order imposing one or more of the following penalties: revocation or _sl.lspension of
the Respondent‘s license, restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the Respondent on probation,

and/or any other relief that the Board deems appropriate.
SIGNED this 7 day of ﬂﬂlf/L , 1991.

George Stuart, Secretary

 

ry G. McPherson, Jr. ’
Acting Chief Medical Attorney

nrmneo

 

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Senior Attorney

Florida Bar No. 788643

Dept. of Professional Regulation
1940 N. Monroe Street, Suite 60
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792
(904.) 488-0062

LAQP/HJS/avs

PCP: April 2, 1991
Burt, Campbell, Wertheirmer

990023

 

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations

of fact contained in the Administrative Complaint.

STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and
458, Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department and
theIBoard.
2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the

Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute violations

of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the
Administrative Complaint.
STIPULATED DISPOSITION

1. FUTURE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the future
violate Chapter 455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto.

2. FINE. The Board shall impose an administrative fine
in the amount of $3,000. against the Respondent. The fine shall

be paid by the Respondent to the Executive Director of the Board

within 180 days of its imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. REPRIMAND. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand

from the Board of Medicine.

4. PROBATION. Effective on the date of the filing 6f
the Final Order incorporating the terms of this Stipulation,
Respondent's license to practice medicine shall be placed on

probation for a period of 2 years.

A. RESTRICTIONS DURING PROBATION. During the period
______________________________

1308083

of probation, Respondent's license shall be restricted, as

follows:

i. INDIRECT SUPERVISION. Respondent shall
practice only under the indirect supervision of a Board-approved
physician hereinafter referred to as the "monitor". In this
regard, Respondent shall allow the monitor access to Respondent's
medical records, calendar, patient logs or other documents

necessary for the monitor to supervise respondent as detailed

below.
3- OBLIGATIONS/REQUIKEHENTS 0F PROBATION. During
__________________________________. V-
the period of probation, Respondent shall comply with the

following obligations and requirements:

1. APPEARANCES. Respondent shall appear

before the Probation Committee of the Board of Medicine at the
first Committee meeting after probation commences; at the last
meeting of the Committee preceding scheduled termination of the
probation; annually; and, at such other times as requested by the
Committee. VRespondeut shall be noticed by the Board staff of the
date, time and place of the Committee meeting whereat
Respondent's appearance is required. Failure of Respondent to
appear as requested or directed shall be considered a violation
of the terms of this Stipulation, and shall subject the

Respondent to disciplinary action.

ii. CONTINUING MEDICAL EDUCATION. Respondent

shall attend 30 hours of Category 1, Continuing Medical

QQQUDH

.

Education, courses per year in the areas of management of
diabetes and hypertension. Respondent shall submit a written
plan to the Chairman of the Probation Committee for course
approval prior to the completion of said courses. The Board

confers authority on the Chairman of the Probation Committee to
approve or disapprove said courses. 'In addition, Respondent
shall submit documentation of completion of these courses in his
required reports. These hours shall be in addition to those
hours required for renewal of licensure. Unless otherwise
approved by the Board or the Chairman of the Probation Cammittee
said courses shall consist of a formal live lecture format. If
Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine for a period of
30 days or more the provisions requiring continuing medical
education shall be tolled. However, before reentering the
practice of medicine the Respondent shall be required to complete
the proportionate amount of continuing education hours required

by this agreement as if he had remained in active practice.

iii. RESPONSIBILITY FOR MONITOR'S REPORTS AND

APPEARANCES. Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that

the monitor submits all required reports, and appears before the

Probatioh Committee as required and directed. Failure of the

Respondent to ensure that the monitor submits required reports or»

makes required appearances shall constitute a violation of this

Stipulation and may subject the Respondent to disciplinary

action.

C. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE MONITORING PHYSICIAN.

 

The monitor shall:

1. RECORDS REVIEW - GENERAL. Review 25% percent
of Respondent's active patient records at least once a month, for
the purpose of ascertaining if Respondent is meeting the standard
of care and maintaining adequate medihal records. The monitor
shall go to Respondent's office once every month and shall review
Respondent's calendar or patient log and shall select the records
to be reviewed.

ii. RECORDS REVIEW — SPECIFIC. Review ggl of
Respondent's patient records for patients treated for diabetes or
hypertension. In this regard, Respondent shall maintain a log
documenting all such patients.

iii. REPORTS FROM MONITOR. Submit reports on a

quarterly basis, in affidavit form, which shall include:

a) A brief statement of why Respondent is
on prghation.

b) A description of Respondent's practice
(type and composition).

c) A statement addressing Respondent's
compliance with the terms of probation.

d) A brief description of the monitor‘s
relationship with the Respondent.

e) A statement advising the Board of any

prohlems which have arisen.

000086

f) A summary of the dates the monitor went
to Respondent's office, the number of records reviewed, and the

overall quality of the records reviewed.

iv. CONTACT. Maintain contact with Respondent
on a frequency of at least once per month. In the event that the
monitor is not timely contacted by Respondent, then the monitor
sheli immediately report this fact to the Board,.1n writing.

v. APPEARANCES. Respondent's monitor shall
appear before the Probation Committee at the first meeting of

said committee following commencement of the probation, and at

such other times as directed by the Committee.

 

D. REPORTS FROM RESPONDENT. The Respondent shall
submit quarterly reports, in affidavit form, the contents of
which may be further specified by the Board, but which shall

include:

i. A brief statement of why Respondent is on

probation.

ii. A description of practice location.

1ii. A description of current practice (type and

composition).

iv. A brief statement of compliance with

probationary terms.

v. A description of the relationship with

monitoring physician.

vi. A statement advising the Board of any

030007

problems which have arisen.

vii. A statement addressing compliance with any
restrictions or requirements imposed.

E. STANDARD PROVISIONS. Respondent's probation
shall be governed by the attached "provisions regarding
monitoring/supervising physicians",_Exhibit B, whieh is
lhcdrporated as if fully set forth herein. However; such
standard provisions shall be modified to allow the monitoring
physician to be located within 40 miles of the Respondent.

6. It is expressly understood that this Consent
Agreement is subject to the approval of the Board and the
Department. In this regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only
the foregoing paragraphs) shall have no force or effect unless a

Final Order is entered incorporating the terms of this Consent

Agreement, by the Board.

7. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the

meeting of the Board where this Consent Agreement is considered.

Respondent, in conjunction with the consideration of this Consent

Agreement by the Board, shall respond to questions under oath

from the Board, Board Staff or Department Staff.
8. Should this Consent Agreement be rejected, no

statement made in furtherance of this Consent Agreement, by the
Respondent may be used as direct evidence against the Respondent

in any proceeding; however, such statements may be used by the

Petitioner for impeachment purposes.

090808

9. Respondent and the Department fully understand that
this Consent Agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating
same will in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board
and/or the Department against the Respondent for acts or

omissions not specifically set forth in the Administrative

Complaint attached as Exhibit "A" heféin.

10. Upon the Board's adoption of this Consent Agreement,

Respondent expressly waives all further procedural steps, and
expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to
otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the _Consent
Agreement and the Final Order of the Board incorporating said
Consent Agreement.

11. Upon the Board‘s adoption of this Consent Agreement,
the patties hereby agree that each party will hear his own

attorney's fees and costs resulting from prosecution or defense

of this matter. Respondent waives the right to seek

any

attorney's fees or costs from the Department in connection with
this matter.

12. This Consent Agreement is executed by the Respondent
for the purpose of avoiding further administrative action with
respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the
Board to review and examine all investigative file materials and,
other materials concerning Respondent prior to or in conjunction
with consideration of the Consent Agreement. Furthermore, should

this Consent Agreement not be accepted by the Board, it is agreed

