FILED

Depzrm en: 0: Hows civnal Re
AUiNUY CLERK

MOW

sﬂﬁhn

   
 

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONA
BOARD OF MEDICI-

CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL 1-8 #92
REGULATION, DATE

Petitioner,

 

DPR CASE NUMBERS: 89—07389,
89—ﬁ11684,
89—311856
—vs— DOAH CASE NUMBER: 90—1565

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 007919
BRET L. LUSSKIN, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FTNAL ogggg

 

This cause came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.57(1)(b)10, Florida Statutes, on December
7, 1991, in Miami, Florida, for the purpose of considering the
Hearing Officer's Recommended Order and Petitioner‘s Exceptions
to the Recommended Order (copies of which are attached hereto as
Exhibits A and B, respectively) in the above—styled cause.
Petitioner, Department of Professional Regulation, was
represented by Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Attorney at Law.
Respondent was present and represented by David Bogunschutz,
Attorney at Law..

Upon review of the Recommended Order, the argument of the
parties, and after a review of the complete record in this case,
the Board makes the following findings and conclusions.

B_U_L..I_r§§S __O.N_.171_>£§EPTIQP§

1. Petitioner's Exception Number 1 is granted for the

reasons stated by Petitioner orally and in writing and based on

the Board's review of the entire record. The Board adopts the

reasoning of Petitioner.

2. Petitioner‘s Exception Number 2 is granted for the
reasons stated by Petitioner orally and in writing and based on
the Board‘s review of the entire record. The Board adopts the
reasoning of Petitioner.

3. Petitioner's Exception Number 3 was withdrawn.

4. Petitioner‘s Exception Number 4 was withdrawn.

5. Petitioner‘s Exception Number 5 is granted for the
reasons stated by Petitioner orally and in writing and based on
the Board's review of the entire record. The Board adopts the
reasoning of Petitioner.

6. Petitioner's Exception Number 6 was clarified on the
record to assert that the expert testimony was not controverted
by another expert, rather than that it was totally
uncontroverted. Petitioner‘s Exception Number 6, as Clarified,
is granted for the reasons stated by Petitioner orally and in
writing and based on the Board‘s review of the entire record.
The Board adopts the reasoning of Petitioner.

7. On the record at the hearing, Petitioner Corrected
Exception Number 7 and withdrew the characterization of the
required burden Of proof as being “the greater weight of the
evidence“ and asserted the reason was based on competent
substantial evidence based on the expert testimony. The Board
grants Petitioner's Exception Number 7, as amended, for the
reasons stated by Petitioner orally and in writing and based on
the Board‘s review of the entire record. The Board adopts the
reasoning of Petitioner. . ,

8. Petitioner's Exception Number 8 was withdrawn.

4. On or about May 18, 1989 and on or about June 13, 1989,
Respondent prescribed Valium to patient N.L. These prescriptions
were issued to Patient N.L. under her alias name of Nina Gibbs;
howevet the address On the prescription was patient N.L.‘s
address.

5. On or about July 25, 1989, patient N.L. died as a
result of a Car accident. Diazepam was found in patient N.L.‘s
blood at the time of her death.

6. Respondent failed to document in the patient's medical
records the aforementioned prescriptions or the need for such
medications.

7. Valium (diazepam) is a Schedule IV controlled substance

as defined by Chapter 893, Florida Statutes, (1987).

8. Between on or about March 6, 1985 and on or about June
13, 1989, Respondent had sexual relations with patient N.L., on
various occasions.

CCﬂﬂitQﬂﬂ

9. Petitioner realleges and incorporates by reference
paragraphs one (1) through eight (8) above, as if fully set forth
herein.

10. Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment when he prescribed Valium to
patient N.L., without documenting in his medical records the
prescriptions or the need for them. Furthermore, the medical
records contain no documentation of any physical exams either on

Or about May 18, 1989 or on Or about June 13, 1989.

 

11. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violation Section
458.33l(l)(m), Florida Statutes, (1987), by failing to keep
written medical records justifying the course of treatment of the
patient, including, but not limited to, patient histories,
examination results, and test results.

CQHNI_IHQ

12. Petitioner realleges and incorporates by reference

paragraphs one (1) through eight (8) and ten (10), above, as it

is fully set forth herein.

13. By Respondent inappropriately prescribing Valium for
patient N.L., without first obtaining an appropriate history, -
update and without examining the patient, Respondent violated:
Section 458.33l(l)(q), Florida Statutes, (1987), by prescribing,
dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing a
legend drug, including any controlled substance, other than in
the course of the physician‘s professional practice. For the
purpose of this paragraph, it shall be legally presumed that
prescribing, dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise
preparing legend drugs, including all controlled substances,
inappropriately or in excessive or inappropriate quantities is
not in the best interest of the patient and is not in the course
of the physician‘s professional practice, without regard to this
intent.

QQﬂﬂI_IBREE

l4. Petitioner realleges and incorporates by reference
paragraphs one (1) through eight (8) and ten (10), above, as if
it were fully set forth herein.

05035;

15. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that level
of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances when he prescribed Valium to patient
N.L. without first obtaining an appropriate history, update,
examination or providing any medical records indicating the need
for such medication.

16. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violation Section
458.33l(l)(t), Florida Statutes, (1987), by failing to practice
medicine with that level of care, skill and treatment which is
recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physician as being
acceptable under similar conditions and circumstances.

CQHNI_EQHB

l7. Petitioner realleges and incorporates by reference
paragraphs one (ll through eight (8), as if fully stated herein.

18. Respondent, by having sexual relations with his
patient, N.L., is in violation of 488.329, Florida Statutes, for
sexual misconduct in the practice of medicine which means
Violating the physician—patient relationship through which the
physician uses said relationship to induce or attempt to induce
the patient to engage, or to engage or attempt to engage the
patient, in sexual activity outside the scope of the practice or
the scope of generally accepted examination or treatment of the
patient; and/or Section 458.33l(l)(j), Florida Statutes, by
exercising influence within a patient—physician relationship for
purposes of engaging a patient in sexual activity. A patient
shall be presumed to be incapable of giving free, full, and
informed consent to sexual activity with her physician.

U®.u;3

L.

CQUNI_EIME ‘

l9. Petitioner realleges and incorporates by referenced
paragraphs one (1) through eight (8), as if fully stated herein.

20. Respondent, by violating the provisions of Section
458.329, Florida Statutes, is in violation Of Section
458.33l(l)(x), Florida Statutes by violating any provision of
this chapter, a rule of the board or department, or a lawful
order of the board or department.

EBCTS EERTATHING TQ BETIENT g,EL

21. On or about November 7, 1989, patient C.F. went to the
Respondent in order to receive treatment for an injury sustained
from a fall.

22. On the above mentioned date, after the examination,*:
Respondent informed patient C.F. that he wanted to examine her a
second time.

23. Patient C.F., accompanied by the Respondent, entered an
examining room with a sliding door.

24. While examining patient C.F.‘s left leg, Respondent
began to rub his hand in the area of her vagina and her breast.

25. Respondent then placed a metal pin in the door in order
to prevent entry into the examining room.

26. Patient C.F. then observed the Respondent facing her
with his pants and underwear down to his knees holding his penis
and masturbating.

27. Patient C.F. managed to leave the office and
immediately notified local police Of the above mentioned

activity.

«um; «?V-Jh

28. Patient C.F., while attempting to flee, was grabbed>by
the Respondent in an attempt to prevent her from leaving the
examination room.

‘29. Patient C.F. and the Requndent were the only people
in the examination room at the time of the incident.

Mum

30. Petitioner realleges and incorporates by reference
paragraphs one (i) and two (2), and paragraphs twenty—one (21)
through twenty—nine (29), above, as if fully set forth herein.

31. Respondent, by fondling patient C.F., exposing his
penis to patient C.F. and subsequently attempting to prevent
patient C.F. from leaving the examination room, is in violatien
of 458.329, Florida Statutes, for sexual misconduct in the L
practice of medicine which means violating the physician—patient
relationship throggh which the physician uses said relationship
to induce or attempt to induce the patient to engage, or to
engage or attempt to engage the patient, in sexual activity
outside the scope of the practice or the scope of generally
accepted examination or treatment of the patient; and/or Section
458.33l(1)(j), Florida Statutes, by exercising influence within a
patient—physician relationship for purposes of engaging a patient
in sexual activity. A patient shall be presumed to be incapable
of giving free, full, and inférmed consent to sexual activity

with her physician.

.9

 

CQUNEAEEEEN ‘
32. Petitioner realleges and incorporates by reference

paragraphs one (1) and two (2) and paragraphs twenty—one (21)
through twenty—nine (29), as if fully stated herein.

33. Respondent, by violating the provisions of Section
458.329, Florida Statutes, is in violation of Section
458.33l(l)(x), Florida Statutes by violating any provision of
this chapter, a rule Qf the board or department, or a lawful
order of the board or department previously entered in a
disciplinary hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully issued

subpoena of the department.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board
of Medicine enter and order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of a
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this [Oﬂkdday of 71W}: , 1990.

LARRY GONZALEZ, SECRETARY

’3 ()LHQ/Lgﬂ

Bsz Stephanie Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT: F l L E [) r
A “noartmem of Professional Regulation
Joseph Harrison AGENCYCLERK
Senior Medical Attorney
Dept. of Professional Regulation gi/ L\Q - r
1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750 2* $0M
C ?
F '--3‘ !
UJ’J-Jii DATE 5/ Qt)
/

.; ._»a 33‘5“

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL

REGULATION,
Petitioner,
vs. DPR CASE NO(s). 89—07389
89—011684
89—011856
BRET L. LUSSKIN, M.D.,
Respondent.

/

ADMINISIBAIIEE_CQMBLAIMI

 

COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional

Regulation hereinafter referred to as ”Petitioner", and files?

this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine

against BRET L. LUSSKIN, M.D., hereinafter referred to as

"Respondent“, and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating

the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida

Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida

Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto

a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued

license number ME 007919. Respondent's last known address is

1920 East Hallendale Beach Blvd., Suite 502, Hallendale, Florida
33009.

EAQIS_EEEIALRLMEJHLJHHJEHI_NiLi

3. Between on or about March 6, 1985 and on or about June

13, 1987, Respondent was patient N.L.'s treating physician.

U J uiJI ;

Ki

4. On or about May 18, 1989 and on or about June 13, 1989,
Respondent prescribed Valium to patient N.L. These prescriptions
were issued to Patient N.L. under her alias name of Nina Gibbs;
however the address on the prescription was patient N.L.‘s
address.

5. On or about July 25, 1989, patient N.L. died as a
result of a car accident. Diazepam was found in patient N.L.‘s
blood at the time of her death.

6. Respondent failed to document in the patient's medical
records the aforementioned prescription or the need for such
medication. %

7. Valium (diazepam) is a Schedule IV controlled substance
as defined by Chapter 893, Florida Statutes, (1987). 9

CQDBI_QHE

8. Petitioner realleges and incorporates by reference
paragraphs one (1) through seven (7) above, as if fully set forth
herein.

9. Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment when he prescribed Valium to
patient N.L., without documenting in his medical records the
prescriptions or the need for them. Furthermore, the medical
records contain no documentation of any physical exams either on
or about May 18, 1989 or on or about June 13, 1989.

10. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violation Section
458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, (1987), by failing to.keep
written medical records justifying the course of treatmeht of the

patient, including, but not limited to, patient histories,

examination results, and test results.
L_3

JVQIV

CQUHI_IEQ ’

ll. Petitioner realleges and incorporates by reference
paragraphs one (1) through seven (7), and nine (9), above, as it
is fully set forth herein.

12. By Respondent inappropriately prescribing Valium for
patient N.L., without first ohtaining an appropriate history,
update and without examining the patient, Respondent violated
Section 458.33l(l)(q), Florida Statutes, (1987), by prescribing,
dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing a
legend drug, including any controlled substance, other than in
the course of the physician‘s professional practice. For the:
purpose of this paragraph, it shall be legally presumed that A
prescribing, dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise L
preparing legend drugs, including all controlled substances,
inappropriately or in extessive or inappropriate quantities is
not in the best interest of the patient and is not in the course

of the physician‘s professional practice, without regard to this

intent.
CQHMI_EBBEE
l3. Petitioner realleges and incorporates by reference
paragraphs one (1) through seven (7), nine (9), twelve (12),

above, as it is fully set forth herein.
l4. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that level

of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably

prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances when he prescribed Valium to patient

N.L. without first obtaining an appropriate history, update,

IL)

«ex

 

examination or providing any medical records indicating the need
for such medication.

15. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.33l(l)(t), Florida Statutes, (1981), by failing to practice
medicine with that level of care, skill and treatment which is
recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physician as being
acceptable under similar conditions and circumstances.

EACEiJEEﬂEJﬂIHQJHLJEHJENI_CiEi

16. On Or about Noyeﬁber 7, 1989, patient C.F. went to the
Respondent in order to receive treatment for an injury sustained
from a fall.

17. On the above mentioned date, after the examination,'
Respondent informed patient C.F. that he wanted to examine het a
second time.

18. Patient C.F., accompanied by the Respondent, entered an
examining room with a Sliding door.

19. while examining patient C.F.'s left leg, Respondent
began to rub his hand in the area of her vagina and her breast.

20. Respondent then placed a metal pin in the door in order
to prevent entry into the examining room.

21. Patient C.F. then observed the Respondent facing her
with his pants and underwear down to his knees holding his penis
and masturbating. ‘

22. Patient C.F. managed to leave the office and

immediately notified local police of the above mentioned

activity.

17

9. Petitioner's Exception Number 9 was withdrawn.

10. Petitioner's Exception Number 10 is granted for the
reasons stated by the Department both orally and in writing as
well as the Board's review of the entire record, including
specifically the transcript and depositions, and in reliance on
Carter vs. Departmeht of Professional Regulation, Board oﬁ
ﬁgdicine, 550 So.2d 494 (Fla. lst DCA 1989), with respect to the
agency‘s authority to construe a statute it is charged with
enforcing.

11. At the hearing, Petitioner withdrew its Exception to the
first sentence of paragraph 30 of the findings of fact and the
Board granted the Exception to the second sentence of paragraph
30 of the findings of fact, to wit, the Hearing Officer‘s finding
that Respondent "does not represent a danger to himself or to the
people in the community." The Board granted the Exception based
on the Board's prior rulings on the earlier Exceptions and the
oral and written arguments asserted by Petitioner.

12. Petitioner's Exception Number 12 is granted by the Board
on the basis of its earlier rulings and the Board specifically
finds Respondent guilty of violations of Section 458.329 and
subsections 458.331(1)(m), (q), (t), (j), and (x), Florida
Statutes.

FINDIEPS 0F FACI-

 

1. Findings of fact set forth in the Recommended Order
which are not inconsistent with the Board‘s rulings on the
Petitioner‘s Exception are approved and adopted and incorporated

herein.

Sb. 4"“.

28. Respondent, by violating the provisions of Section
458.329, Florida Statutes, is in violation of Section
458.33ljl)(x), Florida Statutes by violating any provision of
this chapter, a rule of the board or department, or a lawful
order Of the board or department previously entered in a
disciplianry hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully issued
subpoena of the department.

EACIS_2EBIAININQ_IQ_EAIIEMI_Qiﬁi

29. Between on or about December 1982 and March 1983,
patient G.S. went to the Respondent in order to receive treatment
for injuries sustained from a car accident.

30. On the above mentioned date, Respondent examined
patient G.S. in an examining room with a sliding door.

31. Respondent placed a metal pin in the sliding door in
order to prevent entry into the examining room.

32. At that point the Respondent, facing patient G.S.,
lowered his pants and underwear and exposed his penis.

33. Respondent attempted to persuade patient G.S. to engage
in sexual intercourse with him.

34. Patient G.S. and the Respondent were the only people in
the examination room at the time.

CQHNI_515

35. Petitioner realieges and incorporates by reference
paragraph one (1) and two (2), and paragraphs twenty—nine (29)
through thirty-four (34), above, as if fully set forth herein.

36. Respondent, by exposing his penis and attembtihg to

persuade patient G.S. to engage in sexual intercourse with him is

U L. './ '._' . {j

0'

in violation of Section 458.329, Florida Statutes, for sexual »
miscondgct in the practice of medicine which means violating the
physicianfpatient relationship through which the physician uses
said relationship to induce or attempt to induce the patient to
engage, or to engage or attempt to engage the patient, in sexual
activity outside the scope of the practice or the scope of
generally accepted examination or treatment of the patient;
and/or Section 485.33l(l)(j), Florida Statutes, by exercising
influence within a patient—physician relationship for purposes of
engaging a patient in Sexual activity. A patient shall be
presumed to be incapable of giving free, full, and informed
consent to sexual activity with her physician.

mum: SEVEN *-

37. Petitioner realleges and incorporates by reference
paragraphs one (1) and two (2) and paragraphs twenty—nine (29)
through thirty—four (34), above, as if fully stated herein.

38. Respondent, by violating the provisions of Section
458.329, Florida Statutes, is in violation of Section
458.33l(l)(x), Florida Statutes by violating any provision of
this chapter, a rule of the board or department, or a lawful
order of the board or department, or a lawful order of the board
or department previously entered in a disciplinary hearing or

failing to comply with a iawfully issued subpoena of the
department.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board
of Medicine enter and order imposing one or more at the following

penalties: revocation or Suspension of the Respondent's license,

H--.;/

23. Patient C.F., while attempting to flee, was grabbed by
the Respondent in an attempt to prevent her from leaving the
examination room.

24. Patient C.F. and the Respondent were the only people
in the examination room at the time of the incident.
CQUNJLJEQUB

25. Petitioner realleges and incorporates by reference
paragraphs one (1) and two (2), and paragraph seventeen (17)
through twenty—four (24), above, as if fully set forth herein.

26. Respondent, by fondling patient C.F., exposing his
penis to patient C.F. and Subsequently attempting to prevent
patient C.F. from leaving the examination room, is in violatioh
of 458.329, Florida Statutes, for sexual misconduct in the V
practice of medicine which means violating the physician—patient
relationship through which the physician uses said relationship
to induce or attempt to induce the patient to engage, or to
engage or attempt to engage the patient, in sexual activity
outside the scope of the practice or the scope of generally
accepted examination or treatment of the patient; and/Or Section
485.33l(l)(j), Florida Statutes, by exercising influence within a
patient—physician relationship for purposes of engaging a patient
in sexual activity. A patient shall be presumed to be incapable
of giving free, full, andiinformed consent to sexual activity
with her physician.

QEHELIIXE

27. Petitioner realleges and incoporates by referehce

paragraphs one (1) and two (2) and paragraphs seventeen (17}

through twenty—four (24), as if fully stated herein.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICES

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
Exceptions has been furnished by U.S. mail to David Bogenschutz,
Es ire, 633 SE Third Avenue, Ft: Lauderdale, FL 33301, this _

74 day of ‘77”, U_ , 1991.

__ //l/
L/ I ///f’46 ////&,//

Mary B ./R'adkins
Senior Attorney

5/

18

Uddvuq

on

 

restriction of the Respondent‘s practice, imposition of a ’
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this 973% day of 2;] 5‘ m t e: , 1990.

LARRY GONZALEZ, SECRETARY

Maw

BY: Stephanie Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Joseph Harrison F I L E [)

Senior Medical Attorney Demdnwntomef

%'
Dept. of Professional Regulation AGENCYCiggﬁRegﬂmm"
1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750 55’
(904) 488—0062
QM

CH/alg QiRK

 

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS '

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION, BOARD OF MEDICINE,
Petitioner,
vs. CASE NO. 90-1565

BRET LUSSKIN, H.D.,

Respondent.

 

RECOMMENDED ORDER
Pursuant to Notice, this cause was heard by
Linda M. Rigot, the assigned Hearing Officer of the Division of

Administrative Hearings, on June 27, 1991, in Fort Lauderdele,

Florida.
APPEARANCES
For Petitioner: Mary B. Radkins, Esquire
Department of Professional
Regulation

Northwood Centre, Suite 60
1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792
For Respondent: David Bogenschutz, Esquire
633 Southeast Third Avenue
Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33301
STATEMENT OF THE ISSUE
The issue presented is whether Respondent is guilty of
the allegations contained in the Amended Administrative Complaint

filed against him, and, if so, what disciplinary action should be

taken against Respondent, if any.

 

PRELIMINARY STATEMENT _

Petitioner filed an Administrative Complaint against
Respondent alleging that he had violated various provisions of
the Hedical Practice Act, and Respondent timely requested a
formal hearing regarding the allegations contained within that
Administrative Complaint. ‘ This matter was subsequently
transferred to the Division of Administrative Hearings for the
conduct of that formal proceeding. Petitioner subsequently filed
.an Amended Administrative Complaint and further amended that

Amended Administrative Complaint by voluntarily dismissing Counts

Four and Five at the commencement of the final hearing in this

cause.

Petitioner presented the testimony of C. F.; Gary J.
Rosenberg, M.D.; Mel Waxman; Reynold N. Stein, M.D.; Jean
Hamilton: and Thelma L. Williams. The Respondent testified on

his own behalf and presented the testimony of Sheryl Vienneau;
Fred Chikovsky; and Burton Cahn, M.D. Additionally,
Petitioner’s Exhibits numbered 1—10 and Respondent’s Exhibits
numbered 1—4 were admitted in evidence.

Both parties submitted post hearing proposed findings
of fact. A ruling on each specific proposed finding of fact can
be found in the Appendix to this Recommended Order.

FINDINGS OF FACT

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent has been
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issueik
license number ME 007919. Respondent is an orthopedic surgeon,

practicing in Hallandale, Florida.

«1-4:

2. Respondent first met N. L. on March 6, 1985, when
she Came to him for treatment of injuries which she received in a
motor vehicle accident on March 2, 1985. N. L. began receiving
physical therapy in Respondent’s office and was examined by

Respondent on a regular basis.

3. The primary medication given to N. L. by
Respondent was 8—12 IM. On a number of occasions, Respondent
gave N. L. a prescription for valium (Diazepam). Diazepam is a

schedule IV controlled substance as defined by Chapter 893,
Florida Statdtes. Respondent made a notatich in N. L.’s records
whenever he gave her a prescription for medication and whenever
he gave her a sample of medication which he had received Erom
manufacturers’ representatives. 7

4. Although subsequently released from active
treatment, N. L. continued to return to Respondent’s office for
treatment and therapy due to continued complaints and due to
episodes of exacerbation of the injuries which she had previously
received.

5. Respondent saw N. L. as a patient for the last

time on February 20, 1987. Respondent gave her no prescriptions

for Valium subsequent to that date.

6. Thereafter, Respondent did see N. L. socially.
She was a friend of his children and dated one of his sons. She
was a guest in Respondent’s home on a number of occasions. On

occasion, she accompanied his sons when they came to Respondent’s‘
office. On several occasions, she flew with Respondent in his

airplane.

'l‘ 'v ..

7. N. L. was never drunk or "stoned" when she was in
Respondent's presence. Respondent never saw any evidence that
N. L. was an alcohol and/or drug abuser. On or about July 25,
1989, N. L. died as a result of a car accident. Some Diazepam

was found in her blood at the time of her death. Her blood also
revealed a high alcohol content.

8. Respondent kept his blank prescription pads in
more than one location in his office. He kept some in his desk
and kept some in a Cabinet in the hallway across from the
examining rooms.

9. According to the records of Eckerd Drug Store, on
May 18, 1989, someone had a prescription for valium filled. éhat
prescription appeared to be signed by Respondent. It was issued
in an alias used by N. L. and reflected N. L.’s home address.
That prescription was filled in increments on May 18 and May 19
by the pharmacists working at Eckerd.

10. According to the records of Eckerd Drug Store, on
June 13, 1989, someone had a prescription for valium filled.
That prescription appeared to be signed by Respondent. It was
issued in an alias used by N. L. and reflected N. L.'s home
address. That prescription was filled on June 13, 1989, was
refilled on June 27, 1989, and was refilled on July 18, 1989, by
the pharmacists working at Eckerd.

11. Although the signature on the two prescriptions

described above is similar to Respondent’s, Respondent did not;

sign or issue those prescriptions to N. L.

12. C. F. is a 28—year—old female who slipped >and
fell in her apartment on August 23, 1989. she sought medical
treatment immediately following her fall. she then retained an
attorney to represent her in the civil litigation she would be
filing as a result of her fall, and that attorney referred her to
Respondent for treatment and physical therapy.

13. Respondent’s first contact with C. F. occurred on
her first visit to his office on August 31, 1989. At that time,
Respondent performed a full physical examination on C. F. and
started her on a course of physical therapy.

14. It was hot Respondent’s practice to see each
patient every time that patient came in for physical theraey.
Rather, Respondent would see such patients once a week, either in
the physical therapy room or in one of his examining rooms.

15. On November 2, 1989, Respondent saw C. F. in the
therapy room. C. F. listed her complaints, and Respondent
examined her and dictated notes for her medical chart. C. F.
asked Respondent if she could talk to him in a different room.
She was placed in one of the examining rooms. When Respondent
came into the examining room, C. F. asked if the door could be
closed and if it could be secured. Respondent then closed the
sliding door to the examining room, securing it with a pin.
C. F. then told Respondent that she was "very good at giving
head.” Respondent replied that that was nice but he was busy.
C. F. continued to joke and was laughing when she left the%
examining room. Thinking it insignificant, Respondent gave no

further thought to the banter which had taken place. As C. F.

2. There is competent substantial evidence to support the
findings of fact adopted by the Board.

CONCLUSIONS 0§_§g§

l. The Board has jurisdiction of this matter pursuant to
Section 120.57(1), Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. The conclusions of law set forth in the Recommended
Order which are not inconsistent with the Board's rulings on the
Petitioner‘s Exceptions are approved and adopted and incorporated
herein.

3. By granting Petitioner's Exceptions Number 7 and 12, the
Board affirmatively adopts the following conclusions of law:

a. The Amended Administrative Complaint
in this case charges Respondent with
failing to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of
the patient, including but not limited
to, patient histories, examination re—
sults and test results. Petitioner has
proved this Count One by clear and
convincing evidence.

It has been demonstrated by unopposed
expert testimony that Respondent is the
author of the prescriptions for Valium
written for N.L. (N.G.) in 1989.
Prescribing for N.L. was the "practice

of medicine” and placed N.L. in the
status of patient. As Respondent kept

no medical records at all Of these
prescriptions or the need for them which
would justify his course of treatment, Or
of any physical examination of N.L. prior
to prescribing Valium, he has violated
Section 458.33l(l), Florida Statutes, as
charged in the Amended Administrative
Complaint.

b. For the purpose of interpreting Section T .
458.33l(l)(q), Florida Statutes, it is
legally pfesgmed in the statute that

prescribing, dispensing, administering,

 

   

left the office, she stopped at the front desk and made ‘an
appointment for a physical therapy treatment the following week.

7 16. On November 7, 1989, C. F. arrived for her
scheduled physical therapy treatment. She was not scheduled to
see Respondent on that date. While C. F. was lying on the
traction table, she asked the physical therapist if Respondent
were in the office that day. The therapist responded that he was
and asked if C. F. needed to speak to him. At first, C. F. said
she did not need to see Respondent, but she later became
insistent that Respondent see her. By the end of C. F.’s therapy
session, C. F. was demanding that she be seen by Respondent,
taking the position that she would not leave without seeingihim
even if that meant that she had to wait all day.

17. The therapist told Respondent that C. F. was
demanding to see him, and Respondent told the therapist to put
C. F. in an examining room. Respondent then became busy, and the
therapist did not have an opportunity to tell Respondent that C.
F. was acting "a little eerie."

18. C. F. was taken to an examining room. she
waited for approximately an hour before Respondent was able to
see her.

19. When Respondent entered the examining room, C. F.
asked him to close the door and motioned to him to lock it by
putting the locking pin in place. Respondent closed the door and
inserted the pin. c. F. walked over to Respondent, abruptly‘=
opened his belt, opened his pants, pulled his pants down, pulled
down his underwear, pulled up his shirt, and told Resﬁbndent to
"hold this," referring to his penis.

\_-

Va.v; j 6

20. C. F. then told Respondent that she had to get a
napkin. She turned, took two steps toward her pocketbook,
reached in, pulled out a camera, and instantly shot two pictures
of Reepondent.

21. She then ran to the door shouting for her husband
whom she had brought with her to her therapy session on that day.
Respondent reached for her pocketbook, but C. F. pulled the pin
out of the door, opened the door, and ran out still loudly
calling her husband’s name. C. F. and Respondent were alone in
the examining room for no more than two minutes.

22. By this time, her husband Patrick had entered the
examining room area, where he immediately attacked the x-iay
technician, placing his hands around the X-ray techniciah’s
throat and attempting to strangle him. C. F. told her husband he
had gotten the wrong doctor, and Patrick then ran to Respondent
and placed a stranglehold on him.

23. C. F. and Patrick left Respondent’s office,
stopped by the gas station where C. F. worked, and then went to
the Hallandale police station.

24. within 24 hours from the time that C. F. seduced
Respondent in his office, she had contacted the attorney
representing her in her “slip and fall" lawsuit regarding his
filing an action against Respondent, had had a ”falling out” with
that attorney over him representing her, had hired a different
attorney to file a lawsuit against Respondent, had been referred
by that second attorney to a third attorney who would represent

her along with the second attorney in suing Respondent, had been

interviewed by a local television station at the office of one of
her new attorneys, her interview and the interview with her new
attorneys had been shown on both the early evening and the late
evening news, and contact had been made between C. F.’s new
attorneys and Respondent's attorney regarding C. F.’s demand for

money from Respondent.

25. No Civil suit was ever filed by C. F. against
Respondent. Numerous contacts took place between C. F.’s
attorneys and Respondent’s attorney. Additionally, C. F.’s

attorneys contacted the Department’s investigator a number of
times attempting to obtain confidential information from the
investigator to be used in C. F.’s Claim against Respondent.
Over the next several months, C. F.’s attorneys continuedi to
demand money from Respondent and threatened Respondent with
additional publicity.

26. In the face of C. F.’s threats of expanded
publicity against Respondent, a settlement was entered into in
February of 1990. Under the terms of that settlement, C. F.
received a cash payment from Respondent’s medical malpractice
carrier with an "extremely nominal” contribution from Respondent.

27. Respondent was immediately devastated by his
encounter with C. F. on November 7, 1989. He walked down the
hallway in his office building and made an appointment to see Dr.
Burton Cahn, a psychiatrist practicing in that building. He was
not able to see Dr. Cahn until November 9, 1989. Dr. Cahn began“
treating Respondent for his depression, seeing Respondent at

first twice a week and then once a week. Respondent was still

seeing Dr. Cahn regularly at the time of the final hearing in
this cause.

28. Respondent voluntarily ceased practicing medicine
on Nowember 9, 1989, to avoid the possibility that the problems
with C. F. would distract him from providing good quality medical
care. He resumed his office practice on March 7, 1990, with Dr.
Cahn’s full approval and following Dr. Cahn’s suggestion that
Respondent never see a female patient without another female in
the room. ~

29. Respondent had ceased performing hOSpital
surgical procedures by approximately August of 1989, two months
before the incident with C. F., since he was not doing huch
surgery in a hospital setting and had someone else in his office
who was performing hospital surgical procedures. When he resumed
his office practice on March 7, 1990, Respondent did not resume
performing hospital surgical procedures since he thought he might
be "too rusty".

30. Respondent is able to practice orthopedic
surgery. He does not represent a danger to himself or to the
people in the community.

31. A further suspension of Respondent from his
practice would be of no benefit to him or to the community.

CONCLUS IONS OF LAW
The Division of Administrative Hearings has

jurisdiction over the parties hereto and the subject matter”

hereof. Section 120.57(1), Florida Statutes.

‘I"~.

Counts One through Three of the Amended Administrative
Complaint filed in this cause relate to Petitioner’s allegations
that Respondent prescribed Valium to patient N. L. on two
occasions during 1989. Count One alleges that Respondent failed
to keep written medical records justifying the course of
treatment when he prescribed Valium to patient N. L. on or about
May 18 and June 13, 1989, and that Respondent, therefore,
violated Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes. Count Two
alleges that Respondent (referring to the two 1989 prescriptions)
inappropriately prescribed valium for patient N. L. without first
obtaining an appropriate history or update and without examining
the patient, thereby violating Section 458.331(1)(q), Floiida
Statutes, by prescribing a legend drug, including any contro11ed
substance, other than in the course of the physician’s
professional practice. Count Three alleges that Respondent
failed to practice medicine with that level of care, skill, and
treatment. which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances when he prescribed valium in 1989 to patient N. L.
without first obtaining an appropriate history, update,
examination, or providing any medical records indicating the need
for such medication, thereby violating Section 458.331(1)(t),
Florida Statutes. Petitioner has failed to meet its burden of
proof as to Counts One through Three of the Amended
Administrative Complaint.

Respondent’s testimony that he ceased treating N. L.

as a patient on February 20, 1987, is uncontroverted.‘ ﬁetitioner

n

presented no direct evidence that Respondent gave N. L. _the
prescriptions for valium dated May 18, 1989, or June 13, 1989.
In support of its allegations, Petitioner offered the testimony
of a pharmacist from Eckerd Drug Store and a handwriting expert.
The pharmacist testified as to Eckerd’s records and as to the
normal procedures utilized by Eckerd. The pharmacist was unable
to testify as to the making of the records or the dispensing of
Valium pursuant to the two prescriptions in question done by the
other pharmacist employed by Eckerd, and the witness had no
independent recollection of the transactions where her initials
appear in Eckerd's records. There is no evidence that Eckerd’s
normal policies were followed in the instances in question, and
Respondent testified that no one from Eckerd called his office
regarding those prescriptions or refilling those prescriptions.
Although Respondent admitted that the signature on the
two prescriptions in question looked similar to his, he denied
that he gave those prescriptions to N. L. It is clear' that
prescription pads were kept in his office in a location where
they were accessible to others. Respondent also testified that
N. L. was in his office after hours on a number of occasions
aﬁter she had ceased being his patient, either accompanied by his
sons, or unaccompanied. The opinion of the handwriting expert
that the signatures on the questioned prescriptions were

"consistent with" the signature of Respondent "within a range Of

variation" was unimpressive and unpersuasive. There was.“

testimony that the handwriting expert could reach no opinion when

first assigned to this case and had to call for even more samples

in order to reach any opinion at all. An examination of the
signatutes reveals, as Respondent suggests, that the most that
can be said about the signatures on the questioned prescriptions
are that they are similar to that of Respondent. Since
Petitioner failed to prove that Respondent gave N. L. the
prescriptions in question, then Petitioner a fortiori failed to
prove that Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying those prescriptions, that Respondent prescribed Valium
to N. L. inappropriately, or that Respondent failed to practice
medicine with that level of care, skill, and treatment which is
recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physician as beihg
acceptable under similar Conditions and circumstances when2 he
prescribed valium to patient N. L.
Petitioner voluntarily dismissed Counts Four and Five
at the commencement of the final hearing in this cause.
Counts Six and Seven relate to the incident involving

C. F. Count Six of the Amended Administrative Complaint alleges
that Respondent is in violation of Section 458.329 and/or Section
458.331(l)(j), Florida Statutes, and Count Seven alleges that
Respondent, by violating Section 458.329, is in violation of
Section 458.331(l)(x), Florida Statutes. Section 458.329,
Florida Statutes, provides as follows:

Sexual misconduct in the practice of medicine.——

The physician-patient relationship is founded on

mutual trust. Sexual misconduct in the practice

of medicine means violation of the physician—

patient relationship through which the physician

uses said relationship to induce or attempt to

induce the patient to engage, or to engage or

attempt to engage the patient, in sexual-

activity outside the scope of the practice or
the scope of generally accepted examination or

treatment of the patient. Sexual misconduct in
the practice of medicine is prohibited.

Section 458.331(l), Florida Statutes, provides,

part, as follows:

Grounds for disciplinary action; action by the
board and department.——

(1) The following acts shall constitute grounds
for which the disciplinary actions specified in
subsection (2) may be taken:

* * *
(j) Exercising influence within a patient—
physician relationship for purposes of engaging
a patient in sexual activity. A patient shall
be presumed to be incapable of giving free,
full, and informed consent to sexual activity
with his physician.

* * *
(x) Violating any provision of this chapter, a
rule of the board or department, or a lawful
order of the board or department previously
entered in a disciplinary hearing or failing to
comply with a lawfully issued subpoena of the
department.

in

Section 458.329, Florida Statutes, prohibits the

physician from inducing or engaging or attempting to induce or

engage

the patient in sexual activity. Respondent did not

initiate sexual activity with C. F.; rather, it was

C.

F. who

attempted to engage Respondent in sexual activity for her own

personal gain. Accordingly, Petitioner has failed to meet its

burden of proving the allegations contained in Count Seven Of the

Amended Administrative Complaint.

Respondent exercised influence within a patieht-physician

As to Count Six, Petitioner has failed to prove that

relationship for purposes of engaging a patient

activity.

in

sexual

The second sentence in subsection (j) does create a

presumption that a patient is incapable of consenting to sexual

 

activity with the physician. However, that subsection doesanot
create an irrebuttable presumption, and Respondent has overcome
the preeumption established by subsection (j). The credible and
convincing evidence is that C. F. brought two things with her to
her physical therapy session on November 7, 1989: her husband
and a camera. She demanded to see Respondent even though she had
no appointment to see him. She waited in the examining room for
an hour. To accomplish her scheme, C. F. needed a photograph of
Respondent in a vulnerable position, and she needed to do what
was necessary to place him in that position. Not only did she
fully consent, she seduced him.

It Can be argued that Respondent should have stoﬁped
C. F. Petitioner’s attorney asked Respondent during cross—
examination why he did not. His answer was: a little
"titillation and curiosity and a large measure of stupidity."
The entire encounter between Respondent and C. F. lasted no more
than two minutes. When C. F. took Respondent’s picture, she had
accomplished her purpose. No argument has been advanced, and no
testimony was offered, as to the point at which any duty to stop
C. F. would have arisen. In any event, the disciplinary statutes
relied upon by Petitioner as set forth in the Amended
Administrative Complaint do not address situations involving
seduction and any duty to stop the seduction. Rather, the
statutes clearly contemplate only situations where the physician
utilizes the physician/patient relationship to engage patients inxh
sexual activity. Accordingly, Respondent did not violate Section

458.331(l)(j), Florida Statutes, in his treatment of C. F.

14

_, >_ .7. ,, .

 

Even if the Legislature had established ,the
presumption against consent by a patient as an irrebuttable
presumption by stating that the presumption was irrebuttable,
thereby baking Respondent responsible for C. F.’s conduct as a
matter of law, no disciplinary action would be appropriate under
the facts of this case. Respondent has been punished enough.
C. F. extracted money from him and caused criminal charges to be
filed against him. Additionally, Respondent voluntarily
suspended himself from the practice of medicine for four months.
The humiliation suffered by Respondent and the damage to his
reputation resulting from the notoriety caused by C. F. appearing
on television to make her accusations cannot be erased. r

W

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and
Conclusions of Law, it is

RECOMMENDED that a Final Order be entered finding the
Respondent not guilty and dismissing the Amended Administrative
Complaint filed against him.

DONE and ENTERED this 18th day of October, 1991, at

Tallahassee, Florida.

 

L’INDA M. RIGOT

Hearing Officer

Division of Administrative Hearings
The DeSoto Building

1230 Apalachee Parkway

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—1550
(904) 488—9675

Xm ,W7, 26%

Filed with the Clerk of the
Division 0 Administrative Hearings

this gg :fday of October, 1991.

4_..,' 15

mixing, or otherwise preparing legend
drugs, including all controlled sub—
stances, inappropriately or in excessive
or inappropriate quantities is not in the
best interest of the patient and is not
in the course of the physician‘s pro—
fessional practice, without regard to

his intent. Respondent inappropriately
prescribed Valium for Patient N.L. by not
obtaining a history, physical examination,
or update since her last visit, thereby
violating Section 458.33l(l)(q), Florida
Statutes. Petitioner has proven this
Count Two by clear and convincing evidence.

c. By prescribing Valium to Patient N.L.
without first obtaining an appropriate
patient history, update, examination, or
providing any medical records indicating
the need for such medication, Respondent
has violated Section 458.331(l)(t),
Florida Statutes, in that he failed to
practice medicine with that level of care,
skill and treatment which is recognized
by a reasonably prudent similar physician
under similar conditions and circumstances.
Petitioner has proven Count Three by clear
and convincing evidence.

d. Based on the findings of fact and
conclusions of law of the Board,
the Board finds Respondent guilty
of violations of Section 458.329

and subsection 458.33l(l)(m), (q),
(t), (j), and (x), Florida Statutes.
4. There is competent substantial evidence to support the

conclusions of law adopted by the Board.
DISPOSITIOy
Upon a complete review of the record in this case, the Board
determines that the disposition recommended by the Hearing
Officer be rejected as erroneous, based on the Board's contrary
findings of facts and conclusions of law. WHEREFORE,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that . r

Copies furnished:

1-3}!

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO SUBMIT ,
EXCEPTIONS: All parties have the
right to submit written exceptions
to this Recommended Order. All
agencies allow each party at least
10 days in which to submit written
exceptions. Some agencies allow a
larger period within which to
submit written exceptions. 293
should contact the qgehgx that will
issue the final order in this case
concerning agency rules on the
deadline for filingﬁexceptions to
this Recommended Order. Any
exceptions to this Recommended
Order should be filed with the
agency that will issue the final
order in this case.

 

 

 

Dorothy Faircloth, Executive Director

Department of Professional
Regulation/Board of Medicine

1940 North Monroe Street, Suite 60

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792

Jack McRay, General Counsel

Department of Professional
Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street, Suite 60

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792

Mary B. Radkins, Esquire

Department of Professional
Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street, Suite 60

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792

David Bogenschutz, Esquire
633 Southeast Third Avenue
Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33301

Case NO. 90—1565

 

APPENDIX TO RECOMMENDED ORDER
DOAH CASE NO. 90—1565

1. Petitioner’s proposed findings of fact numbered 1—4,
6—9, 22, 28, and 31 have been adopted either verbatim or in
substance in this Recommended Order.

2. Petitioner’s proposed finding of fact numbered 5 has
been rejected as being unnecessary for determination of the issues
herein.

3. Petitioner’s proposed findings Of fact numbered 10,
13-18, 23, and 24 have been rejected as being subordinate to the
issues under consideration herein.

4. Petitioner’s proposed findings of fact numbered 11,
12, 20, 21, 25, 26, 29, 30, and 35 have been rejected as not being
supported by the weight of the credible and/or competent evidence
in this cause.

5. Petitioner’s proposed findings of fact numbered 19,
27, and 36—41 have been rejected as not constituting findings oﬁ
fact but rather as constituting recitation of the testimony, '
conclusions of law, or argument of counsel.

6. Petitioner’s proposed findings of fact numbered 32—34
have been rejected as being contrary to the weight of the credible
evidence in this cause.

7. Respondent’s four unnumbered paragraphs contained in
the Findings of Fact section of his post hearing Report and
Recommendation of Referee have been rejected as not constituting
findings of fact but rather as constituting recitation of the
testimony, conclusions of law, or argument of counsel.

Case No. 90—1565

n

1v:

 

MED

 

L" 1 1 n. -.'n..43'«:.‘lmi R"““h‘"0n
, . ..v_‘..\‘r(
STATE OF FLORIDA .- \, _,x '
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION; j : /,,/
BOARD OF MEDICINE _/' "~ ‘* »‘~”«~’
DEPARTMENT or PROFESSIONAL CUM“
REGUIATION,
DATE
Petitioner,
v5. ' DOAH CASE NO. 90—1565
DPR CASE NO. 89—011684
89—011856
BRETT LUSSKIN, 89—007389

Respondent.

n__ __ u. .. 1

 

EETITLQNER‘S EXCEPTTQHS TO RECOMMENDED ORDER
COMES Now, the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, and files these Exceptions to the Recommended Ordef
issued by the Honorable Hearing Officer on October 18, 1991, in
this proceeding. The Petitioner respectfully requests that the
Board of Mechine reject the recommendations of the Hearing Officer
set forth below and adopt those stated herein for the reasons as

a

ipear.
WITH RESPECT TO count; ONE; Two AND THREE
1. The Hearing Officer erred in her Findings of Fact in

paragraph 11 of the Recommended Order, wherein the Hearing Officer

Although the Signature on the two prescriptions
described above is similar to Respondent's, Respondent
did not Sign or issue those prescriptions to N.L.
The Hearing Officer's Findings of Fact is erroneous in that

the Florida Department of Law Enforcement handwriting expert

gpncifically testified that:

am

And for all these reasons and for some
that I did not call your attention to I was ‘
able to determine that the person who wrote
.these three signatures in the remaining known
writings that I had also executed the questioned
M.D. signatures on Petitioner's Exhibit Number 7.

Q: Did you analyze the other prescriptions,
that one issued on 6/13/89, in the same manner?

A: Yes, I did.
Q: And your conclusion on that one was?

A: My conclusion was that the person who
wrote Petitioner's Exhibit Number 8 also wrote
that M.D. signature on Petitioner's Exhibit Number
7. '

Q: Did you analyze the other writings,
other than just the signature on these two
questioned documents?

A: Yes, I did.
Q: And what did you determine?

A. Based on my examination, I was able to
determine that the person who wrote the writing on
Petitioner's Exhibit Number 8 also wrote the name
information, the date information, and the
prescription on Petitioner's Exhibit Number 7.

(Transcript, pp. 182, 183; See also Transcript, pp. 174,
175, 208)

Not only did the handwriting expert testify that the same

person who wrote and signed the three acknowledged prescriptions

also wrote and signed the two questioned prescriptions but she also

testified that she tested the inks and there was no difference in

the inks used on the five prescriptions:

Q: Can you tell us what, if anything, you
found Concerning the ink used in those signatures
and prescriptions?

A: My examination of the inks, with the
exception of the obvious blue ink writings, and.

2

the red markings and other obvious markings, I

was able to ~- I was not able to differentiate ~
the inks between the writings on the individual
prescriptions.

(Transcript, p. 184)
The expert also opined that:

Basically the questioned exhibits were
executed in such intricate detail and such
distinct fashion that I did not at that time
think they had any of the features or
characteristics usually associated with a
forgery.

(Transcript, pp. 204; See also Transcript, , pp.
206, 208,. 209)

2. The Hearing Officer's Findings of Fact in paragraph 11 of
the

Recommended Order should be rejected.

The Hearing Officer has erred in her Conclusions of Law on-'

page 11 of the Recommended Order wherein she stated:

The opinion of the handwriting expert that

the signature on the questioned prescriptions
were "consistent with" the signature of Respondent
"within a range of variations" was unimpressive and
unpersuasive... An examination of the signatures
reveal, as Respondent suggests, that the most that
can be said about the signatures on the questioned
prescriptions is that they are similar to that of
Respondent.

The Hearing Officer's Conclusions of Law is erroneous in that
it is directly contrary to the Petitioner's expert‘s testimony and
Respondent presented no expert testimony to refute her.

The courts have clearly enunciated in several worker's
compensation cases that it is an abuse of discretion to reject

uncontroverted expert testimony without a reasonable explanation.

Further, where the testimony and evidence at a hearing are

 

uncontrovertedq a finding contrary to the manifest weight of such
testimony and evidence is not supported by competent substantial
evidence. Loughan v. stutz Siebeilinq Tire, 483 So. 2d 1389 (Fla.
1st DCA 1986) also quoted with approval in Rodriguez v. Sheraton
Bal Harbour Hotel, 509 so. 2d (Fla. lst DCA 1987), C.F. Philbot v.
City of Miami, 541 So. 2d 680 (Fla. lst DCA 1987) and Morton Plant
HosQital v. Craft, 547 So. 2d 1024 (1989). (Attached)

The Hearing Officer's Conclusions of Law in page 11 of the
transcript concerning the authorship of the two questioned
prescriptions should be rejected.

3. The Hearing Officer has erred in her Conclusion of Law on
page 11 of the Recommended Order wherein she stated:

There was testimony that the handwriting
expert could reach no opinion when first assigned
to this case and had to call for even more samples
in order to reach any opinion at all.

The Hearing Officer's Conclusion of Law is erroneous in that
it is contrary to the Florida Department of Law Enforcement
expert's testimony that she was originally given Respondent's
signature samples from legal documents and that she specifically
asked for prescription writings as representing normal course of
business writing to compare with the two questioned prescriptions.

Q: Okay. And you asked for more signatures,
didn't you, or you suggested it would be appropriate
to provide you with, for instance, prescription
Signatures that you might be able to make a more
definite opinion; correct?

A: What I asked for was normal course of business
writings, since it was on a prescription that the
person exhibits ——

Q: Uh—huh (Nods affirmatively). , -

4

 

A: -— the most —— your best evidence would have\
been to have known writings that were also written
on prescriptions for comparison purposes.

Q: Basically on May the 7th, 1990, didn't
you say, if a more definite opinion is still
desired, it is suggested that some normal course
of business writing of Dr. Lusskin's, preferably
valid prescriptions, be collected and made
available for examination.

Do you remember saying that?

A: Yes.

Q: That‘s part of your report on that date,
right? ’

A: Yes.

The Hearing Officer's Conclusion of Law should be rejectedz»

4. The Hearing Officer has erred in her Conclusions of Law
at page 13 of the Recommended Order wherein she states: ~

There is no evidence that Eckerd's normal
practices were followed in the instances in
question.

The Hearing Officer‘s Conclusions of Law is erroneous in that
it is contrary to the pharmacist's testimony that it was a strict
policy that for a refill not authorized on the original
prescription the pharmacist would make a phone call to the
physician's office and receive permission directly from the doctor

or from the doctor through his nurse for a refill:

Q: These prescriptions are for how many
refills, if any?

A: None. And the original said no refills.

Q: How is a ~— what is the procedure for
refilling a prescription which says no refill?

A: Okay. We would make a phone call to_the

5

u

doctor's office --

Q: And what would ——

A: —— and request a refill.

Q: To whom would you speak?

A: Sometimes the doctor. Usually we talk to
a nurse and she has to ask the doctor, and he has to
give her permission.

And then she would relay the message
to us or the doctor may call us back and okay
the refill.

Q: When you were working at Eckerds was there
any particular policy with'respect to how a refill
was obtained?

A: By calling on the phone?

Q: Uh—huh (Nods affirmatively).

A: That's it. We would call and get
permission from the doctor.

We had to get permission from the
doctor in order to refill a prescription that
was marked no refill.

Q: So a refill would not —— Excuse me.

A prescription would not be refilled without
permission from the doctor.

A: Correct.

Q: Was there any special policy for controlled
substances?

A: A special policy?
Q: Uh—huh (Nods affirmatively).
A No.

Q: Was this policy strictly followed while
you were ——

A: Yes.

95 -;a

Q: —- there?

Who would call the physician? Would the
pharmacist or somebody else?

A: The pharmacist.

Q: When there is a refill date and it's
indicated on the computer by your initials that
you were the dispensing pharmacist, then you would
have been the one to call the doctor on that date;
is that correct?

A: Yes.

The implication is that Respondent approved the refills.

The Hearing Officer's Conclusions of Law on page 13 of the
Recommended Order should be rejected.

5. The Hearing Officer erred in her Findings of Fact iﬁ
paragraphs 5 of the Recommended Order wherein the Hearing Officer
stated: 7

Respondent saw N.L. as a patient for the
last time on February 20, 1987. Respondent gave
her no prescriptions for valium subsequent to that
date.

The Hearing Officer's Findings of Fact is erroneous in that
Petitioner's handwriting expert stated without contrary expert
opinion that Respondent authored the two prescriptions for Valium
written on May 18 and June 13 of 1989.

The "Practice of Medicine” means the diagnosis, treatment,
operation, or prescription for any human disease, pain, injury,
deformity, or other physical or mental condition. (Section
458.305, Florida Statutes, Definitions.) Respondent's authorship

of the two questioned prescriptions for N.L. constituted the

”practice of medicine" and established a doctor-patient

UV

vu'u'u'wq

relationship with N.L.

The Hearing Officer's Findings of Fact in paragraph 5 should
be rejected.
6. i The Hearing Officer erred in her Findings of Fact in

paragraph three of the Recommended Order wherein she stated:

Respondent made a notation in N.L.'s
records whenever he gave here a prescription
for medication.

The Hearing Officer‘s Findings of Fact was erroneous in that
the expert's uncontroverted testimdny established that Respondent
authored the two prescriptions for Valium after February 20, 1987

and the Hearing has accepted the statement that:

Respondent has no written medical records
reflecting the prescriptions for Valium to N.L.
(N.G.) on May 18, June 13, or a refill on July
18, 1989, nor are there written medical records
reflecting any physical examination of N.L.
(N.G.) on those dates which would indicate the
need for the prescriptions.

(Appendix to Recommended Order accepting
Petitioner's Finding of Fact No. 22)

The Hearing Officer's Findings of Fact in paragraph three of

the Recommended Order should be rejected.

/. The Hearing Officer has erred in her Conclusions of Law
on page 12 of the Recommended Order wherein she states:

Since Petitioner failed to prove that
Respondent gave N.L. the prescriptions in
question, then Petitioner a fortiori failed
to prove that Respondent failed to keep written
medical records justifying those prescriptions,
or that Respondent failed to practice medicine
with that level of care, skill, and treatment
which is recognized by a reasonably prudent
similar physician as being acceptable under . ,

8

_«-.—.. ‘
I‘l

ULJU u~(1

l. Respondent's license to practice medicine is
REPRIMANbED .

2.’ Within 60 days, Respondent must be evaluated by a
psychiatrist approved by the Physician's Recovery Network and
must comply with all recommendations of said psychiatrist
including entering into and complying with a contract with the
Physician‘s Recovery Network, if applicable.

3. Respondent shall not examine or treat any female
patients without a female employee who is a health care
professional licensed by the Department of Professional
Regulation present in the room.

4. Respondent must complete the continuing medical
education course offered by the University of South Florida and
the Florida Medical Association entitled, "Protecting Your
Medical Practice: Clinical, Legal, and Ethical Issues in
Prescribing Abusable Drugs," or an equivalent course approved by
the Board.

This order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk Of the
Department of Professional Regulation.

W,
DONE AND ORDERED this lq day Of Wk, 1991.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

IV

ZACHARI H P. ZACHARIAH, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

 

 

similar conditions and circumstances when he
prescribed valium to Patient N.L.

The Hearing Officer's Conclusions of Law is erroneous in that
the greater weight of the evidence, based on the Petitioner's
Expert handwriting analyst is that. Respondent authored the
prescriptions.

The Hearing Officer's Conclusions of Law should be rejected.

If accepted that Petitioner proved that Respondent authored
the two prescriptions in question the unopposed expert testimony
of Dr. Stein and Dr. Rosenberg was that:

Indications for prescribing medications
should be written in the physician's
medical records not only because it is the law
but to substantiate that the physician's medical
practice was proper and within the standard of
care. (T., pp. 80, 81)

It is not appropriate for a physician
to prescribe Valium, or any controlled
substance, without documenting the subjective or
objective findings, i.e., some form of physical
examination and the results, and the indications
for prescribing the drug. (T., pp. 82-85; P's Ex. 3,
p. 13)

The medical records of Respondent do
not justify the course of treatment followed for
N.L. in may, June and July, 1989, in that there are
no medical records of his prescriptions for valium
or the indications therefor. (T., p. 90; P. Ex. 3,
pp. 21,22)

The writing of two prescriptions for
Valium for Patient N.L. in May and June of 1989
without any substantiation for those prescriptions
is below the standard of care, skill and treatment
recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physician
as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances. (T., p. 91; P's Ex. 3, p. 14)

Petitioner's Conclusions of Law as stated in paragraphs five,
six and seven of Petitioner's Proposed Recommended Order should be

- 9

Vvu~.;

’1
2

my

adopted as'a finding that Respondent is guilty as charged in Counts
One, Two and Three of the Amended Administrative Complaint.

WITH RESPECT TO COUNTS SIX AND SEVEN
8. The Hearing Officer has erred in her Findings of Fact in
paragraph 15 of her Recommended Order wherein she states: (On

November 2, 1989)

When Respondent came into the examining room,

C.F. asked if the door could be closed and if it
could be secured? Respondent then closed the _
sliding door to the examining room securing it

with a pin. C.F. then told Respondent that she

was "very good at giving head." Respondent replied'
that that was nice but he was busy. C.F. continued
to joke and was laughing when she left the examining
room. Thinking it insignificant, Respondent gave no
further thought to the banter which had taken place.

The Hearing Officer's Finding of Fact is erroneous in that
Petitioner presented competent substantial evidence to the

contrary:

Q: Can you tell us how it came about that you
saw Doctor Lusskin? Did you request it, for example?

A: I was in the therapy room and Doctor Lusskin
wasn't there that day, so another doctor —- I forgot
his name. There was another doctor there, and he
had given me some medication, because my leg and my
head was hurting, and I took it and it made me sick.
So the next time I came back, I asked the lady, the
nurse, the —— what do you call them ~— the therapy
lady could she let me see Doctor Lusskin to explain
to him that the medicine that the other doctor gave
me made me sick/ and that's when I seen him again.

Q: Okay. Do you know what month that was?
A: That was November.

Q: November of 89?

A: Yeah.

Q: Okay. And did you see Doctor Lusskin ,

lO

Vqu\J"‘u

9%.} ”A

at the time you requested to see him?
A: I don't understand.
Q: You said that you requested to see him?
A: Right. Yes. I saw him that day.
Q: Okay. what occurred on that visit?

A: He came in.7 I told him what the problem
was, and he was just giving me remarks, just word
remarks, and I was not thinking on the terms —~ I
wasn't thinking so ——

Q: Well, what did he say to you?

_ A: For instance, I was laying on the table,

and he goes, "Where do you work?” I told him where
I worked. He asked my about my husband. I told him
about my husband. Then he made a remark about with a
mouth like mine, I bet I get a lot of comments while ;‘
I'm at work, because I told him the type of work I did,
and he said something about that also. I wasn't ——
it didn't seem nothing to me when he was talking like.
that. It just —— I don't know. It just didn't seem
like -- anyway, he said he told the lady, the nurse
there that he wanted to see me in the examining room
before I left, and she came in and told me that the
doctor wants to see you in the room, and I said okay.
So we went in the room, the examination room, and he
told me to explain to him again about what the med~
ication did to me that the other doctor gave me, and
I did.

Q: What medication was that?

A: I don't remember. I don't remember. What
did you want to know?

Q: Well, what else happened on that visit with
Doctor Lusskin when you were in the examining room?

A: We went over to the examination room. We
were talking about the medication and what it did,
and he got up, and he went out of the office to get
me another prescription, because he came back with
the prescription. I took it and I folded it and when
I went to put in my purse and when I went to turn
around, I turned around, and he was standing there
with his penis out of his pants in his hand, and he
had his other hand leaning up against —— there was

A 11

U U u p I

sliding doors, not opening doors —— and he had hand
up against the sliding door, and he asked me all kind’
of stuff. He asked me —— he made the remark, something

about wanting to taste. He made the remark about hoped
‘he didn‘t upset me. He made the remark if I'm nervous,
I can come back later when everybody's gone. They
usually leave I think around five or six.

Q: And he said this to you while he was standing
there?

A: Yes, yes. When I turned around and seen him
do that, I went to the door to leave, but he had his
hand up there and he's telling me he didn't mean to
upset me and all this what I had just said. And I'm
standing there like this and I just snickered, I guess
I laughed or snickered, because I was on the way out
of the room. 'And I went out. 'I left. He just moved
his hand, and I opened the door, and I left.

Q: When you left the room, was he still
partially undressed?

A: I don't know.
(Deposition of C.F., pp. 9-12)
9. The Hearing Officer has erred in he: Finding of Fact
in paragraph 19 of the Recommended Order wherein she stated:

19. When Respondent entered the examining
room, C.F. asked him to close the door and motioned
to him to lock it by putting the locking pin in place.
Respondent closed the door and inserted the pin. C.F.
walked over to Respondent, abruptly opened his belt,
opened his pants, pulled his pants down, pulled down
his underwear, pulled up his shirt, and told Respondent
to "hold this,” referring to his penis.

The Hearing Officer's Finding of Fact was erroneous in that
Petitioner presented competent and substantial evidence to the
contrary:

A: And then he came in, and he shut the door,
and there's a table with two chairs, and I was
sitting —— no, I was standing against the wall between
the two chairs, and he walked in. And he asked me if
I was going to let him see me today —— all of me today-
and, no, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. He was asking me about

12

2:55

 

my leg first, and he started massaging my leg where it

was hurting, where the pain was in my leg. And he ‘

started groping in my vagina, so I backed up, so that he
couldn't touch me in a sexual manner.

Q: Were you dressed or undressed?

A: I was dressed. I had pants on and a shirt.
I was dressed.

Q: And he was groping on your clothing?

A: Right, correct. And so I backed up, and
gosh, I can see it, I just can't —— he went—— there's
a table and then a bed, and the bed had drawers in
it, and the table had drawers in it, and he went to the
bed —— I was standing between them, and he went to one
drawer, and he was looking forosomething while he's
talking to me, and that's when he was making the
comments, like, "Are you going to let me see all of
you today?" And, then, he went from one drawer to the
other drawer, he went across my breasts and smiled. '

Q: What do you mean he went across your breasts?’

A: He touched me. He touched my breasts, like,
I guess, a caress across my breasts. And then in the
other drawer, he pulled out a pen, a silver pen, not
a writing pen. I don't know what you call it, but he
put it in the door to block the door, so you couldn't
open it. I'm trying to remember the exact way it
happened. I remember telling him I had a cold. I
remember I had to blow my nose, and I had to get
kleenex out of my purse, because he started undoing
his belt. So I went back to my purse, and the camera
was the only thing in my purse. So I grabbed my
camera and when I turned around to take the picture,
he had his pants and his underwear down and he was
masturbating, and he was looking at himself. He
wasn't looking at me, because when I turned around
and had the camera on him, and I was looking at him
through the camera.

A: Well, I had the camera, and he wasn't looking
at me. He was looking at himself, so I turned the
camera longways and took the picture, and when he saw—
I jus kept pushing the button, taking pictures-— and
when he looked up and saw, he just yelled, “Oh, my gosh.
You did it to me, too.’' And I grabbed my purse, and
while I was grabbing my purse, I opened it and threw the
camera in there, and I went running to the door to get
the pen out of the door, and he grabbed me and pulled

l3

me back, and I started banging on the door and I
started screaming for my husband, Patrick, because I’
knew he was in the lobby. I got away from Doctor
Lusskin and I get the pen out of the door, and I went
running out. When I went running out, I seen my
husband coming in, and there was the x—ray technician
Coming down the hallway, and my husband grabbed him.
So I went and I got my husband and I told him, "No,
that not Doctor Lusskin." And Doctor Lusskin was
coming out of the room at that time and going back to
the office, going back to his office, which was the
room right next to the examining room where we were,
and then, I don't remember what happened from there.
I remember my husband and the doctor on the floor.
That's all I remember, and the doctor was yelling,
“Grab her purse. Grab her purse. Grab her purse."
And I remember people trying to grab my purse, and ,
somebody had me by the hips, and I Couldn't get out
of the doorway, and when I got out, I left.

(Deposition of C.F., pp. 15—18; and P's Exhibit 5,
the two pictures of Respondent in the poses describeﬁ'
by C.F.)

10. The Hearing Officer has erred in her Conclusions of Law
on page 13 and 14 of the Recommended Order wherein she states:

... the disciplinary statutes relied upon

by Petitioner as set forth in the Amended
Administrative Complaint do not address situations
involving seduction and any duty to stop the
seduction. Rather, the statutes clearly
contemplate only situations where the physician
utilizes the physician/patient relationship to
engage patients in sexual activity.

and,
Accordingly, Respondent did not violate Section
458.33l(1)(j) or 453.329, Florida Statutes, in his
relationship with C.F.
The Hearing Officer has erred in her Conclusions of Law. The
Hearing Officer determined, as finder of fact, that the
Respondent's testimony concerning the incident with C.F. is the

more credible. However, the pictures of Respondent, uncontroverted

as depicting him in his examining room with C.F., a patient, show

14

ddUuQL‘

that Respondent, at a minimum "titillated and curious", had
embarked upon a course of conduct which, as a matter of law,
contravened the intent of Sections 458.329 and 458.331(l)(j) which
prohibit sexual involvement with a patient.
Further Petitioner presented the unopposed expert testimony
of two physicians who opined that:
It was totally inappropriate, unethical
and below the standard of care for Respondent
to assume the poses pictured in Petitioner's
Exhibit 5 in the presence of a patient.
For a physician to go undress in the presence
of a patient would totally undermine any confidence
and trust the patient would have in the doctor. It
would destroy and invalidate the doctor—patient

relationship.

and

There is go circumstance within the scope of
medical examination or treatment which would render
Respondent's exposure of himself to a patient
acceptable. Even consenting sexual activity
between doctor and patient in the physician's
office during office hours is unacceptable.

(See the Deposition of Dr. Rosenberg at pages
27—30, 43, and the testimony of Dr. Stein at
pages 75—77 and 114.)

The Board of Medicine may interpret the disciplinary statutes
differently than does the Hearing Officer. It is the Board‘s
responsibility to determine what constitutes conduct to be punished
through license disciplinary proceedings. For the Board to do
otherwise would result in a clear abdication of its role in the
legislatively prescribed scheme. An agency’s interpretation of its

own rule is entitled to great weight and persuasive force in the

appellate court. Cohen v. School Beard of Dede Countv, 450 So. 2d

15

ut;p\;u

N41 . y“?

1238, 1241 (Fla. 3rd DCA 1984). As the First District Court has
held:

It is a settled principle of law that an
administrative agency's construction of a
statute it is charged with enforcing is
entitled to substantial deference.
Accordingly, courts will decline to overturn
that construction except for the most cogent
reasons, or unless clearly erroneous,
unreasonable, or in conflict with some
provision of the State's Constitution or the
plain intent of the statute. Palm Beach
Junior Colleqe v. United FacultyJ etc., 425
So. 2d 133 (Fla. lst DCA 1982, modified, 475
SO. 2d 1221 (Fla. 1985). ' '

 

There have been no interpretative rulings on the issues raised
by the Hearing Officer.

The Hearing Officer's Conclusions of Law should be rejecteef

11. The Hearing Officer has erred in her Findings of Fact in
paragraph 30 of the Recommended Order wherein she states:

30. Respondent is able to practice orthopedic
surgery. He does not represent a danger to himself
or to the people in the community.

The Hearing Officer's Findings of Fact was erroneous in that
it is based on here acceptance of Respondent's entire testimony and
on the testimony of Dr. Burton Cahn, who has counselled Respondent
since his arrest as a result of C.F.‘s charges. Although Dr.
Cahn's testimony is that Respondent is capable of practicing
medicine with care and safety to his patients it must be recognized
that the only materials provided Dr. cahn were a copy of the
Administrative Complaint and a letter concerning scheduling

Respondent as a patient. He had not reviewed any of the

investigative reports, depositions, or medical records which would

16

}

_5%

w

 

 

have provided a more indepth picture of the incidents in which
Respondent was involved. While Petitioner would agree that
Respondent is in need of psychiatric counselling, it is doubtful
that Dr: Cahn has had an adequate informational basis for his
determination.

The Hearing Officer's Finding of Fact is not based on
competent substantial evidence.

12. The Hearing Officer has erred in her Recommendation that
there bar a finding” of ,not' guiity and. that: thew Amended

VAdministrative Complaint be dismissed.

Based on the Petitioner's Exceptions of Fact and Conclusions
of Law it is recommended that Respondent be found guilty 6f
violation Section 458.329 and Subsections 458.33l(l)(m), (q), (t),
(j) and (x), Florida Statutes; fined $10,000 and that his license
to practice medicine in the State of Florida be revoked.

WHEREFORE the Department moves this Board to grant

Petitioner's Exceptions to Recommended Order.

Respectfully submitted,

,.., 2 ?/~
“72/ 41,5 L. /"///:.\' ' thé/éwp
Héfy B>,3édkins
Senior Attorney
Fia./Ba% No. 355041
Depattment of Professional

V” Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee,Florida32399-O792
(904) 488—0062

 

,~;___.

LJg'u3Q'Q J

NOTICE OF RIGﬂT TO JUDICIAL REVISE

 

A PARTY WHO IS ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THIS FINAL ORDER IS ENTITLED
TO JUDICIAL REVIEW PURSUANT TO SECTION 120.68, FLORIDA STATUTES.
REVIEW PROCEEDINGS ARE GOVERNED BY THE FLORIDA RULES OF APPELLATE
PROCEDURE. SUCH PROCEEDINGS ARE COMMENCED BY FILING ONE COPY OF
A NOTICE OF APPEAL WITH THE AGENCY CLERK OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION AND A SECOND COPY, ACCOMPANIED BY FILING
FEES PRESCRIBED BY LAW, WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL, FIRST
DISTRICT, OR WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL IN THE APPELLATE
DISTRICT WHERE THE PARTY RESIDES. THE NOTICE OF APPEAL MUST BE
FILED WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF RENDITION OF THE ORDER TO BE
REVIEWED.

CERTIFIEALE _OF smug;
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Bret L.
Lusskin, M.D., 1920 East Hallendale Beach Boulevard, Suite 502,
Hallendale, Florida 33009 and David Bogenschutz, Attorney at Law,
633 Southeast 3rd Avenue, Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33301, by U.S.
Mail to Linda M. Rigot, Hearing Officer, Division of
Administrative Hearings, The DeSoto Building, 1230 Apalachee
Parkway, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—1550; and by interoffice
delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney,
Department of Professional Regulation, 1940 North Monroe Street,

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792 at or before 5:00 P.M., this

day of , 1991

 

DecOrders/Lusskin

U

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,
Petitioner,

V. DPR CASE NOS. 89-07389,
89—011684, 89-011856

BRETT LUSSKIN, M.D.,

Respondent.

 

MOTION FOR FINAL ORDER

COMES NOW the DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION, the
Petitioner, and moves this Honorable Board of Medicine to enter a
Final Order in the above—styled cause. As grounds therefor, the
Petitioner would state that:

1. On May 10, 1990, the Petitioner filed an Amended
Administrative Complaint against the Respondent alleging that the
Respondent violated Sections 458.331(1)(j),(q),(t),(x),and 458.329
Florida statutes. A copy of the Administrative Complaint is
attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit "A".

2. Thereafter, Respondent filed an election of rights
form requesting a formal hearing before the Board. A copy of the
Election of Rights form is attached hereto and incorporated herein
as Exhibit "B".

3. Exceptions have been timely filed by the Petitioner.

A copy of the Exceptions are attached as Exhibit "C".

n

> L: ‘._- -.J

 

4. The Respondent has been advised by a copy of this
Motion that the Board will consider the records which include the
following documents: Administrative Complaint, Recommended Order,
Petitioner Exceptions to Recommended Order, Petitioner's Proposed
Recommended Order, Respondent‘s Proposed Recommended Order,
Transcripts, exhibits.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner moves this Honorable Board to

issue a Final Order after the hearing in this case.

"Respectfully submitted,

/

7/7 ’7 /’7 617/7) ~

/; l ;/ //
/,/’/ [/21/‘714/ /// ¥JL/xh ///’ LA./;’t/)

ggr~7

   

Mary/bf Radkins

Senior Attorney

Debt; of Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Fl. 32399—0792

(904) 488—0062

CERTIFICATF OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Mot1on has been furnished by U. S. Mail this 5"“ day of

,-\.

’/ﬂ»1u»(cc~/ , 1991 to David Bogenschutz, Esquire, 613 Southeast
?hird Avenue, Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33301.

   

'1
I

7/}? 1

r////»£//l“) [ZL/¢i</ﬂ C(g.7
Ma?y B,~Radk1ns
Senior Attorney

1/”

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL

 

REGULATION,
Petitioner,
vs. DPR CASE NO(S). 89—07389
89—011684
89-011856
BRET L. LUSSKIN, M.D.,
Respondent.
/
aﬂENDED_hﬂﬂlﬂlSIBEIIEE_EQMRLAIHI

COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation hereinafter referred to as ”Petitioner", and files ?»
this Amended Administrative Complaint before the Board of
Medicine against BRET L. LUSSKIN, M.D., hereinafter referred to
as "Respondent", and alleges:

1. Petitioﬁer is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 007919. Respondent's last known address is
1920 East Hallendale Beach Blvd , Suite 502, Hallendale, Florida
33009.

EACIS_EEBTBLNILELJD_BAILENI_ﬂiLi
3. Between on or about March 6, 1985 and on or about June

13, 1989, Respondent was patient N.L.'s treating physician.

 

