i.) .FlLED

['"L""”7E"'-1 CT Pru-‘ess:9nai Reml'amn

{IGEH-ZIY CL'HK
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULAmN
BOARD OF MEDICINE WK 53"?
Ix I "J Uk-S'C'Lﬂf'"

E/

 

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL

REGULATION, CLERK W
Petitioner, [JAE ‘Cg
v. DPR CASE NUMBER: BQFOBSQS

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0044893
SABIR ALI, M.D.,

Respondent.

I

m

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on September 20,_i991, in
Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, for consideration of a Stipulatioh
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in
the above-styled case. Upon consideration of the Stipulation, the
documents Submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulation as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and Conditions of the

Stipulation.

This Final Order takea effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Department.

2i

DONE AND ORDERED this 210 day it gfébh éer" , 1991.

ﬁbARo OF MEDICINE

ﬂ

. ZACHARIAH, H.D.

         

ZACHAR
CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE __
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been proﬁided by certified U.S. Mail to Sahir Ali, M.D., 5205
Babcock Street, N.E., Unit 2, Palm Bay, Florida 32905}:?ery
Dixon, Esquire, 108 East Central Boulevard, Orlando, Florida
32802-0753 and by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr.,
Chief Madical Attorney, Department of Professional Regulation,

Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida

32399—0792, at or before 5:00 P.M., this 5; E 35% day of

Eﬂigﬁa , 1991.
.2? 2’ 2’“
w 22 A 222222.222

DOROTHY J.‘FAIRCLGTH
Executive Director

    

15. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.33l(1)(t), Florida Statutes, in that
Respondent is guilty of grass or repeated malpractice or the
failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent
similar physician as being acceptable under similar conditions
and circumstances.

CQHHI_IEQ

1?. Petitioner realleges and incorporates, by
reference, paragraphs one {1) through thirteen (l3) and
fourteen [14) as if fully stated herein. I‘

18. Respondent failed to keep written medical
records justifying the course of treatment of Patient #l in
that his medical records fail to include any pre-operative
findings, diagnoses, or treatment plan.

19. Based on the foregoing Respondent violated
Section 458.331q1}(m), Florida Statutes, in that he is guilty
of failing to keep written medical records justifying the
course of treatment of the patient, including, but net limited
to, patient histories; examination results; test results;
records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or administered; and
reports of consultations and hoepitaiizations.

wHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the.
Board of Medicine enter an ORDER imposing one or more of the

following penalties: Revocation or suspension of the

l"

Respondent's license, restriction of the Respondent's
practide, imposition of an administrative fine, issuance of a
reprimand, placement of the Respondent on probation, and/or

any other relief that the Board deems appropriate.

SIGNED this Qmay of

, 1991.

George Stuart
Sacretary

Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief ﬂedical Attoxney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Mary E. Radkins

Senior Attorney

FL. Bar No. 355041

Department of Professional
Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, FL 32399-0?92
(904] 488-0052

SAD:MBR:pC
pcp: 11/5/90
Burt, Haline, Campbell

FILED

Department of Prufcs3; .35 Regulation
AGENCY CLERK

5f 242101.;

CLERK

DATE L—' 97‘" CH 1

 

 

.n:

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

vs‘
DPR CASE NO. 8908898

SABIR ALI., M.D.,

Respondent.

 

SIIEHLAIIQH
Sabir Ali, M.D., the Respondent, and the Department of
Professional Regulation, referred to as Department, stipulate
and agree to the following joint Stipulation and to the entry
of a Final Order of the Board of Hedicine, referred to as

Board, incorporating this Stipulation and agreement in this

matter .

SIIEHLAIEQ_EECIS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a

licensed physician in the State of Florida having been iseﬂégi\

  

license number ME 0044893.

2‘ Respondent was Charged by
Respondent with violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes,
and es enifted pursuant thereto. A true and correct

gwawee
copy 9 LAdministrative Complaint is attached hereto and

incorporated by reference as Exhibit A.

es the

        

H4"
allegations of fact Contained in thezAdministrative Complaint

attached hereto as 7xhibit A.
QTEﬂHEATﬂg FQECIILISIQHS QF‘ LAW

1. Resgeeient, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, admite that in such capacity he is subject to the
prOViSiDnS of Chapters 455 and 453, Florida Statutes, and the
jurisdiction of the Department and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set faith in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, censtit ‘viola ions of

I {Q’r‘ﬁuaii ,
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged i eLAdministrative
Complaint.
" ._m7 P IT?

1. Respetdent shall not in the future violate chapters
455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated
pursuant thereto.

2. The Beard shall impose an administrative fine in

the amount of $2,500.00 against the Respondent. The fine shall

be paid by the Respondent to the Executive Director of the Beard

within 30 days of tie impositioﬁ by Final Order of the Board.

3. The Eeseondent shall receive a letter of concern
from the Board of Meﬁicine.

4. Within one year from the Board‘s acceptance of this
stipulation Respondent shall attend 40 hours of Category I
Continuing Medical Education courses per year, 20 of these hours

shall be in the area of general surgery, 10 of these hours shall

be in the area of emergency room treatment, and 10 of these hours
shall be in the area of risk management and record keeping.
Respondent shall submit a written plan to the Probationers‘
Committee for approval prior to epmpletion of said courses. The
Board confers authority on the chairman of the Probatiohers'
Committee to approve or disapprove said continuing education
courses. In addition, Reapendeht shall submit documentation of
completion of these continuing medical education courses in a
semiannual report to the Probatieners' Committee. Thése hours
shall be in addition to those hours required for renewal of _
licensure. Unless Otherwise approved by the Board or the
chairman of the Probationers‘ Committee, said centinuing
education courses shall consist of a formal live lecture format.

5. Respondent shall comply with all of the terms and
conditions of the Stipulation.

E. It is expressly understood that this Stipulation is
subject to the approval of the Beard and the Department. In this
regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing
paragraphs of the Stipulated Facts, Stipulated Conclusions of Law
and Stipulated UiSpOSitiGﬂ} shall have no force and effect unless
a Final Order is entered incorporating the terms of this
Stipulation, by the Board.

7. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the
meeting whereat this Stipulation is considered. Respondent, in

conjunction with the consideration of this Stipulation by the

Board Staff or Department Staff.

8. Should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement

made in furtherance of this Stipulation, by the Respondent may be

impeachment only.

9. Respondent and the Department fully understand that
this joint Stipulation and subsequent Final Order incorporating
same will in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board
and/or the Department against the Respondent for acts or
admissions not specifically set forth in the Administrative
Complaint attached as Exhibit "A“ herein.

10. Upon the Board's adaption of this Stipulation,
Respondent expressly waives all further procedural steps, and
expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to
otherwise challenge or centest the validity of the joint
Stipulation of facts, conclusions of law and imposition of
discipline, and the Final Order of the Board incorporating said
Stipulation.

11. Upon the Board's'sdoptien of this Stipulation, the
parties hereby agree that each party will bear his own attorney's
fees and Costs resulting from prosecution and/or defense of this
proceeding. Respondent waives the right ts seek any attorney's
fees or costs from the Department in connectien with this

disciplinary proceeding.

. 12. This Stipulation is executed by the Respondent for
the purpose of avoiding further administrative action with
respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the
board to review and examine all investigative file materials
concerning Respondent prior to or in conjunction with
consideration of the Stipulation. Furthermore, should this joint
Stipulation not be accepted by the Board, it is agreed that
presentaticr to and consideration of this Stipulation and other
documents and matters by the Board shall not unfairly or
illegally prejudice the Board or any of its members ffcm further
participation, consideration or resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED this maday of ”L: we , 1991.

9mg;-

Sabir Ali, H. D.

 

 

 

Respondent

Sworn to and subscribed

before me this :27#*day

of ,- , 1991.

N.” JTARY PUBLIC " Nam mm, Skate clﬁun‘da

Hf commisaiun Easpins Mg. 2-1". 19“
My Commission Expires: m hﬂﬁWmhrHVMmuHu A
J
APPROVED this Al day of wdféﬂ-CLJ‘ , 1991.-
' :7

George Stuart
Secretary "

": /// M4;

{ By: Larry G. McPherson
Chief Medical Attorney

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
_ DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

vs. . CASE NO. 8908898
SABIR ALI, M.D.,

Respondent.

 

aEEHDEDLADHIEIEIBAEIEE_EQMELALHI

COMES NOW the Petitinner, Department of Proiessional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as ”Petitioner," and files
this Amended Administrative Complaint before the Board of
Medicine against Sahir Ali, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with
regulating the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30,
Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter
458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in ihe State of Florida, having
been issued license number ﬁﬁ 0044393. Respondent's last

known addresa is 796 Apollo Circle, Northeast, Palm Bay,

Florida 32905.

EAﬂI$_BELAI1H§_IQﬁEBIIENI_Ei

‘3‘ On or about July 23, 1989 at approximately 11:10
a.m., the Respondent an Emergency Room surgeon, examined
Patient #1 in the Emergency Room of the Holmes Regional
Medical Center in Melbourne, Florida.

4. Patient #1 was a 44 year old male who suffered
multiple injuries after being hit by a car.

5. Respondent toek vital signs and ordered a
Computerized Axial Tomography {CAT} Scan done on Patient #1.

6. Respondent failed to take any plain Film of the

#1 presented in the emergency room.

7. Respondent failed to perform a periotoneal
lavage which would have indicated the need for immediate
surgery.

8. Respondent failed to stay with Patient #1 when
the CAT Scan was done and immediately note the results which
showed free blood in the abdomen.

9. Following the CAT Scan, the Patient‘s vital
signs deteriorated and it was determined by the Emergency Room
Physician that Patient #1 needed emergency surgery. At
approximately 12:10 p.m., the Respondent was paged to perform
the surgery. Respondent was paged 3 more times between 12:10
p.m. and 12:35 p.m., but he did not respond to the pages. At
approximately 12:35 p.m., another surgeon was assigned to

perferm surgery on Patient #1.

10. During the paging by the Emergency Room Staff,
Respondént was not on the hospital premiaes. Respondent was
finally contacted by telephone at his home around 1:00 p.m.

11. Respondent arrived at the hospital and
performed the surgery at approximately 1:11 p.m.; however,
Patient #1 expired later due to massive intra—abdominal
'injuries and blood loss suffered in the accident.

12. Respondent failed to document his physical

findings, diagnosis or treatment plan in any pre—operative

note.

13. As a result of Respondent's actions Patient
#1'5 surgery was significantly delayed by one to two hours.
QQHHI_QHE
l4. Petitioner realleges and incorporates, by
reference, Paragraphs one {1] through thirteen (13) as if

fully stated herein.

15. Respondent failed to practice medicine with
that level of care, skill, and treatment which a reasonably
prudent similar physician recognizes as acceptable under
similar conditions and circumstances in that Respondent failed
to take any plain film or perform a gastric lavage which would
have indicated the need Ear immédiate surgery; Respondent
failed to remain with Patient #1 to learn the CAT Scan resulté
immediately: and Regpondent failed to be available for

immediate surgery when Patient's #1‘5 condition deteriorated.

