Final Order No. AHCA-9S-003'lé Dalng’Z; 3%?
“LED

Agency for Heath Care Adminismlion
AGENCY CLERK
RS Power, Agency lerk

STATE OF H
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CAR
BOARD OF MEDICINE

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE
ADMINISTRATION,
BOARD OF MEDICINE,

    

Petitioner,

 

v. AHCA CASE ﬁ'. 'é94isdé5”::
DOAH CASE NO. 93—02665

LICENSE NO. MEOO38324
ALFRED OCTAVIUS BONATI, M.D., '

Respondent.

/
NOTICE OF SCRIVENER’S ERROR,

 

COMES NOW the Petitioner, the Agency fer Health Care
Administration, and files this Notice of Scrivener’s Error in
regards to the Fiﬁal Order of the Board and states:

1. On October 6, 1994 the Petitioner filed a Final Order in
AHCA Case No. 89-13485. It is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

2. Paragraph 11 should be deleted from the Final Order. It
was mistakenly included in the Final Order and was never a term
ordered by the Board. This error was discovered by the Petitioner
on February 27, 1995. Paragraph 11 provides that Dr. Bonati was to
comply with terms and conditions of his criminal probation.
However, Dr. Bonati is not now, nor has he ever been.on criminal

probation.

3. This change is a correction and is not prejudicial to the

Respondent.

4. This Notice takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Agency Nunc Pro Tunc.

DONE and ORDERED this c2’1*“ day of Fibrun

rgf , 1995.

Board of Medicine

7
{let#’ 2 a_jéluﬁéd £ [4/ l’}
Gary E. Winchester, M.D.'
Chairman of the Board

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I hereby certify that a true a
Corrected Final Order and its att
Mail to Alfred o. Bonati, M.D.,

Colonial Square office Park, 8001 N. Dale Mabry, Ste. 301-A, Tampa,
Florida 33614 and to Arnold Pollock, Hearing Officer, Division of
Administrative Hearings, the DeSoto Building, 1230 Apalachee
Parkway, Tallahassee, Florida 32399 and by hand delivery to Larry

G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney, Agency for Health Care
Administr tion, 1940 N. Monroe St., Tallahassee,

> Florida 32399
this $3 hday of ¢— , 1995.

mm 4@- 4;-

Marm Harris, Ed.D.
Executive Director

nd correct copy of the foregoing
achments have been forwarded by US
c/o Salvatore Carpino, Esquire,

DISPOSITIQN

1-:-

In light of the foregoing Findinge of Fact and Conclusions of
Law, the board hereby determines that pursuant to Rule 61F6-20,
Florida Admihistrative Code, the penalty recommended by the Hearing
Officer is hereby accepted and adopted, except that a Letter of
Guidance rather than a Reprimand shall be issued.

WHEREFORE, it is found, ordered and adjudged that the
Respondent shall receive a Letter of Concern, and that he shall be
placed on two (2) years probation with the following terms:

- 1. Respondent shall comply with all State and Federal
statutes, rules and regulations pertaining to the practice of
medicine, including Chapters 455, 458, 893, Florida Statutes, and
Rule 61F6, Florida Administrative Code.

2. Respondent shall appear before the Probation Committee of
the Board of Medicine at the first Committee meeting after
probation commences; at the last meeting of the Committee preceding‘
scheduled termination of the probatien; annually; and at such other
times as requested by the Committee. Respondent shall be noticed
by the Board staff of the date, time and place of the Committee
meeting whereat Respondent's appearance is required. Failure of
Respondent to appear as requested or directed shall be considered
a violation of the terms of this Agreement, and shall subject the
Respondent to disciplinary action. V >

. 3. In the event the Respondent leaves the State of Florida
for a period of thirty days or more or otherwise does not engage in

the active practice of medicine in the State of Florida, then

' certain provisions of Respondent's probation (and only those

provisions of said probation) shall be tolled as enumerated below
and shall remain in a tolled status until Respondent returns to
actiée prectice in the State of Florida. Respondent must keep
current reSidence and business addresses on file with the Board.
Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (10) days of any
changes of said addresses. Furthermore, Respondent shall notify
the Board within ten (10) days in the event that Respondent leaves
' the activa practice of medicine in Florida.

4. In the event that Respondent leaves the active practice of
medicine in this state for a period of thirty days or more, the
following provisions of his probation ehall be tolled: I

a. The time period of probation shall be tolled.

b. The provisions regarding supervision, whether direct
or indirect by another physician, included in paragraphs 6 through
9 belew (where applicable).

c. The provisions regarding , preparation 6f
investigative reports detailing compliance with this Stipulation.
See paragraph 10 below.

5. In the event that Respondent leaves the active practice of
medicine for a period of one year or more, the Board’s
PrObationer’s Committee may require Respondent to appear before the
Probationer’s Committee and démonstrate his ability to practice
medicine with skill and safety to patients prior to resuming the

Practice of medicine in this State.

10

rm

6. Respondent shall not practice except under the indirect
supervision of a physiciah fully licenggd under Chapter 458 who has
been approved by the Board or its Probationer's Committee. Absent
PIOVision' for and compliance with the terms regarding temporary
approval of a monitoring physician set torth in paragraph 8 below,
ResPondent'shan cease practice and not practice until the Bcard's
Prcbationez's Committee approves a mohitoring physician.
Respondent shall have the monitoring physician with him at his
fi¥5t probation appearance ‘before the Board’s Probationer’s
Committee. A failure of the Respondent or his monitoring physician
t0 appear at the scheduled probation meeting shall_constitute a

Violation of the Board's Final Order. Failure of the Respondent or

the monitoring physician to appear at the scheduled Probation
Committee shall constitute a- violation of this Order. Prior to
approval of the monitoring physician by the Board's Probationer's
Committee, the Respondent shall provide to the monitoring physician
a COPY of the Administrative Complaint and Final Order filed in
this case. Prior to the apprcval of the monitoring physician by
the Board's Probationer's Committee, Respondent shall submit to the
Board’s Probationer's Committee a current curricﬁlum vitae and
description of the current practice from the proposed monitoring
PhYSician. said materials shall be received in the Board office no
later than fourteen days before the Respondent’s first seheduled
Probation appearance. The attached definition of a menitoring

PhYSician is incorporated herein. The responsibilities of a

monitoring physician shall include:

11

(a) Submit semi—annual reports, in affidavit form, which

thall include: .-

1.' Brief statement, of why thSician is on
probation?

2. Description of probationer's practice.

3. Brief statement of probationer's compliance

with terms of probation.
4 . Brief description of probationer's relatqmnship
with monitoring physician.

5. Detail any problems which may have arisen with

.probationer.
Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that the honitorinq
Physician submits the required reports.

(b) Be available' for consultation with Respondent
whenever necessary, at a frequency of at least once per month.

»(c) Review fifteen percent of Respondent's patient

records selected on a random basis at least once every month. In
Order to comply with this responsibility at random review, the
monitoring physician shall go to Respondent's office once every
mbnth. At that time, the monitoring physician shall be responsible
.for making the random selection of the records to be reviewed by
the monitoring physician. ‘

(d) Report to theA Board any violatiéns By the
Probationer of Chapter 455 and 458, Florida statutes, and the rules

Promulgated pursuant thereto.

12

7. The Board shall confer authority on the Chairman of the

Board’s Probationer’s Committee to temg:;arilx approve Respondent’s
monitoring physician. In order to obtain this temporary approval,
Respdndenﬁ rshall. submit to the Chairman of the Board’s
Probationer's committee the name and curriculum vitae of the
Proposed monitoring physician. This information shall be furnished
to the Chairman of the Board’s Probationer’s Committee by way of
the Board of Medicine’s executive director, within 48 hours after
ReSpondent receives the Final Order in this matter. This
information may be Faxed to the Board of Medicine at (904) 487-9622
or may be sent by overnight mail or hand delivery to the Board of
Medicine at the Agency for Health Care Administration, 1940 North
Monroe street, suite 60, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750. In
order to provide time for Respondent's proposed monitoring
physician to be approved or disapproved by the Chairman of the
Board’s Probationer's Committee, Respondent shall be allowed to
practice medicine while approval is being sought, but only for a
period of five working days after Respondent receives the Final
Order. ‘1: Respondent's monitoring physician has not been approved
during that time frame, then Respondent shall cease practicing
- until such time as the monitoring physician is temporarily
aPProved. In the event that the proposed monitoring physician is

not aPProved, then Respondent shall cease practicing immediately.

Should Respondent's monitoring physician be approved, said approval

shall only remain in effect until the next meeting of the Board’s

13

gt

nu

Probationer's Committee. Absent said aggravali Resgondent sha;;
, ~ ,
not anctico medicine until a monitoring ghysicgan is aggroved.

8. In view of the need for ongoing and centinuous monitoring
Respéndeﬁt ehall also submit the curriculum vitae and name of an
alternate monitoring physician to be approved by the Board or its
Probationer' Committee. Such physician shall be licensed pursuant
to Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and shall have the same duties
and responsibilities as specified for Respondent's monitoring‘
physician during those periods of time which Respondent’s
monitoring physician is temporarily unable to provide supervision.
Prior to practicing under the ihdirect suﬁervision of the alternate
monitoring physician, Respondent shall so advise the Board's
Probationer1s Committee in writing. Respondent shall further
adVise the aoard's Probationer’s Committee in writing of the period
Of time during which Respondent shall practice under the
supervision of the alternate monitoring physician. Respondent
shall not practice unless he is under the supervieion of either the
approved monitoring physician or the approved alternate.

9. Respondent shall submit semi—annnal reports in affidavit
form, the contents of which shall be specified by the Board. The
rePorts shall include:

(a) Brief statement of why physician is on probation.
(b) Practice location. V
(c) Describe current practice (type and composition).

(d) Brief statement of compliance with probationary

terms.

14

(e) Describe relationship with monitoring physician.

(f) Advise Board of any problems.
10. Respondent understands that during this period of
probation) semi-annual investigative reports will be compiled with
the Agency concerning his compliance with the terms and conditions

Of probation and the rules and Statutes regulating the practice of

medicine.

> SCX“V€—h£ﬂ
E}“PO p 12. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary_to comply with

the terms of the Final Order issued based on this proceeding. Such
: costs include, but are not limited to, the costs of preparatien of
the investigative reports detailing compliance with the terms of
the Final order entered in this case, the cost of analysis of any
blood or urine specimens submitted pursuant to the Final Order
entered as a result of this proceeding, and administrative costs
>directly associated with Respondent’s probation. See .Sectibn
4ss.331(2){ Florida Statutes.
This Final Order becomes effective upon its filing with
the Clerk of the Agency for Health Care Regulation.’
NOIICE
The parties are hereby notified pursuant to Section
>120.59(4), Florida statutes, that an appeal of this Final Order may
be taken pursuant to Section 120.68,?10rida Statutes, by filing
one COPY of a Notice of Appeal with the Clerk of the Agency for

Health Care Administration and one copy of a Notice of Appeal with

15

the required filing fee with the District Court of Appeal within

thirty (30) days of the date this Final Orﬂism filed.

DONE and ORDERED this QW day of M, 1994.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

gt: 4 WM 4M

ARY E WINCHESTER, MM D.a
VICE- -CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICA O SERV C

 

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and corréct copy of the foregoing
Final Order and its attachments have been forwarded by U.s. Mail to
Alfred Octavius Bonati, M-D., Gulf Coast orthopaedic Institute,
7315 Hudson Avenue, Hudson, Florida 34667, Paul B. Johnson,
Esquire, JOHNSON & JOHNSON, P.O. Box 3416, Tampa, 'Florida‘ 3360].,
Arnold H. Pollock, Hearing Officer, The DeSoto Building, 1230
Apalachee parkway, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-1550, and by hand
delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr. , Chief Medical.Attorney, Agency
for Health Care Administration, 1940 North éom street,

Tﬁhassee, Florida 32399-0792 on this
_.. ’, 1994.

day of

Mam Harms, Ed.D.
Executive Director

 

16

STATE OF P'

‘ - DIVISION or ADMINIS'] "”" FILED
' AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRAT!
. ' OFFICE OF THE AG cv CLERK
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION, BOARD DEPUwafgﬂz¢7\1,h ~//)/7c53A1
OF MEDICINE, CLERK / '
Petltloner, DATE “r? -I q 'q K/ _
vs. DOAH CASE No. 93-02665
ALFRED o. BONATI, M.D., DPR CASE NO. 39—13485
Respondent.

Ml

RESPONDENT’S EXCEPTIONS TO RECOMMENDED ORDER

 

Respondent, ALFRED O. BONATI, M.D. ,' files these hie exceptions
to the Recommended Order issued by the Hearing Officer bearing date
July 30, 1994 (sic) but which was received by Respondent by U.S.
min on July 7, 1994. ' '

The Board. of Medicine is requested to reject the hereinafter
described Findings, Conclusions and Recomendetion of the Hearing
Officer and adopt those Findings, Conclusions and Reccmendatiens
therein requested by Respondent for the reasons that appear herein.

1- The Hearing officer erred in his statement of preliminary
matters, at page 4 of his Recommended Order, in which he stated
that “there has been no showing his (Dr. SmolenskY) testimcny
should not. be received and Considered in evidence". The hearing
Office:- should have found that the Petitioner's expert witness, Dr.

Gerald Smolenaky, has demonstrated an antipathy and} inability to

be fair and objective concerning Respondent, Dr. Bonati.

In a deposition taken in thincase of wimer v. Legp er on
February 25, 1992, Dr. Smolensky stated under oath that
"prpfessionélly I gig have a dislike for his (Dr. Bonati)
profe‘ssioéal conduct". (Transcript, p. 168) Dr. Smolensky
testified (Transcript, p. 164) that on a regular basis he does DIES
for insurance carriers and defense attorneys and that he has
examined as many as 50 and perhaps more patients of Dr. Bonati for
insurance carriers or defense lawyers in which he has criticized
Dr.’ Bonatils treatments. (Transcript, pp. 168, 194)

As retently as January 26, 1994, Dr. Smolensky signed an
affidavit against Dr. Bonati in a. Notice of. Intent to Institute
Civil Action (Petitioner's Exhibit 6). The testimony of Dr.
Smolensky demonstrates that he is predisposed to find fault with
Dr. Bonati because of nunerods professional encounters on opposite
sides of the legal spectrum.

The Circuit Court of Pasco County, on May 28, 1993,
disqualified Dr. Smolensky from performing an Inn because of
allegations that he had been a systematic retainer of insurance
carrier‘s and defense counsel in personal injury. action: over the
Course of '20 year: (Transcript, p. 167). In 1988, Dr. Smolensky
had given an opinion criticizing Dr. Bonati in a malpractice case

filed by 1413. 5 against Dr. Bonati (Transcript, p. 171).
A proceeding under MAL. 458 to discipline 4 medical

doctor is penal in nature. Breesmgn v. Department of Professional
3.338 151:5.631'1I Board of Medicigg, 557 So.2d 469 (Fla. 13f. DCA 1990).

Therefore, it is incumbent upon the Department of Business ahd

f/A/Icfi “ /

STATE OF FLORIISA .
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

AGENéy Fog HEALTH CARE FmﬂOMHNmAHCNNJLimmlea'¢q

F XLE D
ADMINISTRATION . , .. '
BOARD OF MEDICiNE , Agency for Health Can: Adnmmlmtmn

AGENCY CLERK

R.S. Power. Agunc - Clcrk
Petitioner, syzw

Deputy Agcncy Clerk

AHCA CASE NO. 89-13435
DOAH CASE NO. 93—02665

LICENSE No. ME0038324
ALFRED OCTAVIUS BONATI, M.D.,
Respondent.
/
________~_________~___________

FINAL ORDER

THIS MATTER was heard by the Board of Medicine (hereinafter
Board) pursuant to Section 120.57(1)(b)10., Florida Statutes, on
October 1, 1994, in Coral Gables, Florida, for consideration of the

Hearing Officer's Recommended Order (Attached as App. A) in the

case of Agencx for ﬂealth Cage Adminisggatiog. Boggg g: uggicine v.
Alﬁred Octavius Bonat;, M.D. At the hearing before the Board

Petitioner was represented by Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief
Medical Attorney. Respondent appeared and was represented by Paul
B. Johnson, Esquire. Upon consideration of the Hearing Officer’s
Recommended order, the‘ Respondent's Exceptions, Petitioner's

responses thereto, and Petitioner's Motion to Increaee Penalty, and

after review of the complete record and having been otherwise fully

advised in its premises, the Board makes the following findings and

conclusions:

u ‘

Professional Regulation to elicit profaiasional testimony only from
expert; who are impartial and have no ax to grind. A review of Dr.
Smolensky' a testimony indicates that he went to great length to
attempt to create issues where none existed. (Transcript, pp. [203,

207-209, 212-215)

2. The Hearing officer erred in Finding of Fact number 4.
He foungl that "she underwent a CAT scan and was diagnosed as having
a herniation at. L 4-5 and a ballooning at L 3-4“ (Petitioner's.
Exhibit 5). That portion of the chart dated 12/18/84 showed that
the CAT scan shows a possible herniated nucleus pulposus at the
level of L-3/4. Ms. S’s uncorroborated recollection of what her
doctors told her ten years age does not rise to the level of
reliability as that of the actual medical records mede
contemporaneously with the interpretation of. the CAT scan.

3- The Hearing Officer erred in Finding of. Fact number 8.
The Hearing Officer should have found that follewing eurgery, 9n
July 24. 1985, the patient made no complaint of pain (see
Petitioner's Exhibit No. 4, the nuree's notes) and Ms. S was
discharged from the hospital on July 27th. Respondent testified
that following the surgery the patient we: at 11b, ambulating and
free of. pain (Transcript, p. 275- 277; Petitioner's Exhibit 5,
Nurse's Notes). Although Ms. S testified differently, her
testimony is based upon her recollection going back ten years. She
kept no diary nor produced any corroborating evidence. Thus, such

testimony does not rise to the level of reliability as that shdwn

‘by records made by impartial and trained health professionals
-

contemporaneous to the occurrence.
4- The Hearing Officer erred in Finding of Fact number 9.
He should‘ have found that, on August 2nd, the patient, Ms. S,
returned to Dr. Bonati for a return visit and stated that the pain
1 she had prior to the operative procedure, which involved the lower
leg, Was no longer present. She new had a new discomfort in that
the pain radiated from the back down to the right buttocks.
(Petitioner's Exhibit No. 5, return visit 8-2—85) Respondent
testified (Transcript, p. 275) that the patient told him that the
pain that she had prior to the operative procedure was no longer
Present but had a new discomfort of pain on the right side. I
Respondent testified (Transcript, p. 279), and. the post-
operative notes (Petitioner's Exhibit No. 4) indicate, that
Respondent had found extensive scar tissue adhesion: entrapping the
nerve at the L4/L5 en the left side and, therefore, felt that such
Pain was up longer present after the operation because he had
resolved the problem by dehriding the adhesion: and scar tissue
which had been infringing on the nerve. Petitioner’s expert, Dr.
Silverstein, agreed that such fact: could cause Dr. Bonati' t0
believe. that he had relieved the ptoblem which was presented prior
‘50 the first operation (Transcript, pp; 134-135). Even Dr.
‘Smolensky was of the name opinion (Transcript, p. 231).
Respondent's expert witness; Dr. Grafton P.‘ Sieber, gave
the Opinion that scar tissue entrapping a nerve could cause the

51711113110318 of which Ms. S had complained prior to the first operation

(Sieber deposition, p. 8). Dr. Grafton F. Sieber is very well
qualified as an expert in spinal surgery. He has been licensed in
Flortda ix} 1.968, is board certified and has done some 5,000 back
surgeries in his career.

‘ Dr. Richard Smith also testified that adhesions and scar '
tissue surrounding a nerve root can cause the type of symptoms of
which Ms. s complained prior to the surgery.. He gave the opinion
that if'she had left sided symptoms prior; to surgery and her left
sided symptoms had been resolved after surgical intervention then
a Physician could assume that her problem had been addressed.
(Smith's deposition, pp.11-12). Dr. Smith is extremely well
qualified to testify as an expert on spinal surgery. He is board
certified and has performed approximately 500 spinal surgeries
during his career. In addition to his civil practice, he is a
Lieutenant Commander in the United States Naval Reserve and for the
Past four years has been the military spine surgeon from Key West
to South Georgia and has been Chief of the Spine Surgery Service
at the Naval Hospital in Orlando. He is a fellow in the American'
Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons, a fellow; in the American Society
for Laser Medicine and. Surgety, has made numeréus presentations and
has been published numerous times concerning the field of spine
surgery and discectemy.

Dr. Bonati testified that in looking baek on what had
occurred, since the herniated disc can be described as an
outpouching of a spongy type of material, that he had probably

Pushed the disc back during the surgery 39 that it no longer:

5

, pressed on the nerve on the left side, thereby clearing up the-pain

on the left side and causing him to believe that: the pain had been
caused by t_he adhesions and scar tissue entrapping the nerve.
(Transcript, pp. 265, 279- -280)
5. The Hearing Officer erred in Finding of Fact number 10.
The Hearing office: should haVE found that, on September 9, 1995,
MS- 5 saw Dr. Bonati again and complained of some discomfort
However, upon examination she was found to have excellent reflexes
and Dr. Bonati suspected that she had tendonitis oz" sacroilitis.
He injected her with 'xylocaine and aristocoft and his plan was to
see' how she reacted. (Petitioner's Exhibit No. 5, return visit ,
9/9/85) On October 10, 1985, Ms. 5 had a recurrence of pain and
Dr. Bonati determined to put her in the hospital fox: further
studies. (Petitioner's Exhibit 5, office visit 10/10/85) cn‘
OCtOber 21, 1985, a myelogram revealed a. perinent incomplete
extradural block at the LULS level. Dr. Bonati advised the
patient that a second microlumbar discectomy would be necessary to
rePair the disc herniation at the L4/L5 level and far removal of
any adhesions that may have formed. (Petitioner's Exhibit 5,
history and physical) The patient agreed to a aecondnicrolumbar
discectpmy at the 1.4/1.5 level. (Transcript, p. 75)
5- The Hearing Officer erred in Finding of Fact number 11.
The Hearing Office: should have found that, on November 13, 1985,
Dr. Bonati performed a microsurgical diacectomy at L4—5 level on
I the right side and found that the nerve root wan completely full

of adhesions and scar tissue. He profusely debtided such areas.

The Doctor did not find any disc herniation as the myelogram
showed. (Petitioner’s Exhibit 4) Despite the operative procedure,
the patient ’gtill continued with pain involving the posterior right .

buttock. The Doctor determined that -in two weeks he would»

continuing pain. she also complained of numbness involving her
right foot.

7. Finding of Fact number 12 sets out Ms. S reeollection of
how the MRI 'came to be administered. The Hearing officer erred in
omitting reference to the progress notes of Bayonet Point Hudson
Ragional Medical Center (fetitiener's Exhibit No. 4) which revealed
that, on December 14, 1985, the Hospital was awaiting KR: studies
done in St. Petersburg and, on December 16, 1985, a hate was made
that "will call today for magnetic resonant imaging" and on 12/17
the magnetic studies imaging reflected disc herniation at two
different levels. The MRI report itself which was admitted as
Respondent's Exhibit A showed that there was a deformity "of the
dural sac at 1.4 and L5 on the right side and also a possible
herniation cf L3 and L4.

9- .The Hearing Officer erred in Finding of Fact number 13
in that Respondent had objected to- the testimony of Ms. S
concerning Respondent being agitated and accusing her of trying to
sue him but the Hearing Officer permitted it to' remain in the
record (Transcript, p. 59) . However} when attorney for Respondent
attempted to cross-examine her (at page 64, et seq.) ta show that

her testimony was a recent contrivance, the Hearing Officer cut off

cross-examination and‘ stated that such facts were not really an

issue. Under such circumstances, it is now inappropriate to
include such allegations as findings of fact material to his

recommendation in this matter.

Dr. Bonati had stated to the husband of Ms. s that he
had been unable to visualize the herniation of the disc and would
like pemission to do an exploratory laminectomy surgical procedure
but since he had been unable to solve the problem in two, attempts,
he offered the patient alternatives for her to see another
PhYSician at Tampa General Hospital or to Shands Hospital
(Transcript, p. 296). She agreed to see Dr. Day at Shands Hospital
in Gainesville. I ‘

9; In Finding of Fact number 14, the Hearing Officer set but
Ms . S’s recollection of what eccurred and her opinion as to why she
has a weak back. But he erred in failing to set out the
uncontradicted testimony of Dr. Bonati as to why she has a weak
back. Dr. Bonati testified (Transcript, p. 305) that the surgery
done by Dr. Day by its very description was not a microdiscectomy
but was probably a laminectomy (Record from Shanda Hospital and
Petitioner's Exhibit No. 6) and the letters from Dr. Day to Dr.
Bonati \(Respondent'a Exhibit H) show that she has an unstable back
brought about by extending the surgical incision.

10. The Hearing Officer erred in Finding of Fact number 15
in his statement that "his review of the results of. the CAT scan
indicated a possible herniated diac. The symptoms described by he.

5% are consistent with that diagnosis." The Hearing Officer

should have found that Dr. Silverstein stated that “the CAT Scan

of the lumbar spine was initially interpreted as a possible

herniated disc at the level of 1.3—4" (Transcript, p. 89)

11. The Hearing Officer erred in Finding of Fact number 15
bY Stating "but the record does not show Respondent removed any
bone Or tissue getting there". The Hearing Office: should have
found that the surgical pathology consultation report (Petitioner's
EXhibit 4, dated 7/25/85) showed that gross description of the
substance removed in the surgery on July 24, 1985 was ”reddish
brown tan bony tissue pieces and light pink soft tissue are mixed
tCNEIethez: and the entire specimen measures 1.6 x 1 x .05 cm" and
that the gross diagnosis was soft tissue and bony tissue clinically
lumbar disc 1.4-1.5.

12. The Hearing Officer erred in Finding of Fact number 18
in aCCEpting as correct Dr. Silverstein's opinion that both
myelograma showed herniation on the left side and that it was
improper for Dr. 'Bonati to perform the second surgery from the
right side. This case is made more difficult because 10 years have
eJLaEZ‘secl since the myelograms were taken and they are no longer in
existence. We have only the written interpretation. >

‘ The written record shows that the second myelogram,
Performed October 21, 1985, did not identify the disc herniation
‘35 being on the left side as the first myelogram did of Hay 28,
1935 (Patitioner's Exhibit 4). Furthermore, the report of the MRI
taken December» 16, 1985 (Respondent's Exhibit A). showed deformity

39d herniation on the right side. Petitioner": Exhibit 6, the

‘ records from Shanda Hospital, in the report of a CT scan, show
pathology on the right side of L4 ahd L5 and the shands Hospital
Operative Report (Petitioner's Exhibit 6) show a preoperative

diagnosis of H‘NP (Herniated Nucleo Pulpcsus) 1.4—5 right. The

POStOPeI'ative diagnosis was KN? 1.4-5 righ . The operation
performed was microdiscectomy at L4~5 righ . Therefore, it is

clear that Dr. Silverstein-was in error, was mistaken, and that the
Hearing Officer was in error to accept Dzj. Silverstein's opinion

askthe facts of this case.

13. The Hearing Officer erred in Finding of Fact number 19.
He found that Dr. Day at Shands Hospital did» a‘ "bona fide
microdiscectomy". The Hearing Officer should have found that Dr.
Day's‘ Operation, although described as a microdiscectomy was more
kin ‘15 a laminectomy using a microscope. IDr. Silverstein testified
(Transcript, p. 107) that: 1

"He was just increasing exposure so he could
see better and obviously see the pathology.
I think what he did was pretty much what we
would do in a regular laminectomy, excise
enough of the lamina above and below the disc
space and remove the ligamentum flavin.

And I think that he brings :in a surgical

microscope to do the actual surgery. But, I

think the exposure he made or: the exposure

that he describes is very similar ’to what we

would do in a non-microscopic laminectomy.‘

(Transcript, p. 107)
Dr. Smith testified (Smith deposition, p. 19) that Dr...Day had
tEChni-Cally performed a hemilaminotomy with the aid of an operating
microscope (Smith deposition, p. 19). Dr. Smith further testified

(Smith daposition, p. 20) that the advantage pt .1 microdiscectomy‘

10

1.5 that there is a smaller incision 'antl less trauma and patients,
can be sent home the same day. Whereas with a larger incision,
such .53 a hemilaminotomy, you need to make a larger exposure and
average hospital stays are about 4 to 5 days. There is a
difference clinically in both the terms of patient’ a discomfort and

morbidity and the length of. hospital stay between micro and
hemilaminotomy. (Smith deposition, 9. 20)

_Cam_ Ebell's Ogerative Orthogaedics (Respondent’ 5 Exhibit G)
describes the Williams technique used by Dr. Bonati to do the
microdiscectomy at page 3751, in which it describes the incision
to be made as a one inch (2.5 cm) skin incision. The Hearing
Officer should also have found that this procedure which increased
exposure was the procedure which Dr. Bonati had himself recommended

after the lack of success in the minimally invasive
microdiscectomies which he had performed.

14. The Hearing Officer erred in Finding of Fact number 20
i‘n that he paraphrased Dr. Silve'rstein'a answer concerning
Potential complications (Transcript, p. 109). He failed to include
as a finding ef fact that no witness testified that the disc did
extrude and no witness testified that the patient was left with
residue]. symptomology. Dr. Smith‘te‘stified that, after Dr. Day’s
surgery, Ms. S was found to have no symptoms or radiculopathy any
longer and there was no indication of any permanent nerve damage
on the patient and that there was no indication that -Dr. Bonati's
two earlier surgeries in July, 1985 and November, 1985 caused any

residual damage to Ms. S. (Smith deposition, p. 18)

11

15. The Hearing Officer erred in: Finding of Fact number 21
in apparently approving and relying upon Dr. Silverstein's opinion
that ‘Dr. ~Bohati failed to perfonﬁ consistent with the standard of
care which existed in 1984 and 1985 and he failed to go far. enough
in these operations to find and remove the patient's problem which
existed throughout that time. The Hearing Office: should have
found that Dr. Silverstein had testified Lat his pre-hearing
deposition that, other than the fact that Dr. Bonati did not
Visualize the herniated disc, there was nothing in his procedure
that was substandard. (Transcript, p. 136)

Dr. Silverstein further testified (Transcript, p. 118)
that the decision by Dr. Bonati to perform the first
microdiscectomy was an appropriate decision as it was a recognized
procedure and appropriate tteatment for: Ma. S. (Transcript, pp.
111—112) Dr. Silverstein also admitted, as did every other expert
who testified that imaging studies such as CAT scene and myelograms
will give false positives and false negatives. (Transcript pp.
120—121, 136-137, 232, 233; Smith deposition, pp. 12-13; Sieber
dePositien, p. 7) Dr. silvetstein further testified that the films
and examixiations prior to the operatian on July 23, 1985 indicated
PathOlqu on the left side and that after the operation if the pain
was no longer emanating from the left side that that would cause
the surgeon to believe the action: he took in clearing adhesions
surrounding the nerve was effective in relieving the problems that
existed prior to the first surgery (Transcript, p. 134, 135). All

the other: experts supported this position. (Transcript pp. 134-

.12

RU INGS ON RESPONDENT’S EXCEPTIONS O

EINDINGS OF FACT AND CONCLUSIONS OF QAW

the Board reviewed each exception and ruled explicitly on
each exception.

1. Respondent's Exception to the Hearing Officer’ s statement
0f preliminary matters regarding allowing the testimony of Dr.
Smolensky is rejected, as the credibility of the witness and weight
to be given to the evidence is a matter within the purview of the
Hearing Officer and not a matter for the Board 129 reconsider.

2. Respcndent’s exception to the Hearing Officer’s Finding of
Fact Number 4, regarding the patient's testimony, is rejected as it
goes to the credibility and weight of the evidence.

3. Respondent’s exception to the Hearing Officer’s Finding of
Fact Number 8, regarding the patient's testimony, is rejected as it
goes to the credibility and weight of the evidence.

4. Respondent's exception to- the Hearing officer's Finding of
Fact Number 9, regarding the patient's testimony, is rejected as it
goes to the credibility and weight of the evidence.

5. Respondent’s exception to-rthe Hearing Officer’s Finding of
Fact Number 10, regarding the testimony of the patient ahd the

Respondent, is rejected as it goes to the credibility and weight of

‘ the evidence .

135, 231-232; Smith deposition, pp. 1%~12; Sieber deposition, p.
8-9)

16. The Hearing Officer erred in Finding of Fact umber 22
in which he stated that "Myelograms are normally reliable and Dr.
Silverstein knows of no incident where a myelogram showed pathology
Which did not. actually exist when the surgeon got inside." It is
Clear from Dr. silverstein' 5 curriculum vitae and his testimony
that he does little back surgery and that most of the back surgery
in his office is done by his partners, whereas, he does mostly
knees, Shoulders and hands. However, Dr. Silverstein did testify
"I think that it's possiblé to have studies performed where there
are false positives and false negatives". (Transcript, p. 121)
Dr. Silverstein further testified that he has never performed a
microdis cec tony .

Dr. Smith, who is far more experienced in back surgery
than Dr. Silverstain, has encountered false negatives and false
positives in reports by radiologists on both CAT scans and
myelograms, He has personally encountered such occasions in which
the imaging Studies showed pathology or lack of pathology and, when
he entered the patient surgically, he did not find what the imaging
StUdY Showed. The radiologist at the Naval Hospital in Orlando
recognized that myelograms and CAT scans are _n_¢_g_ 100% correct.
(Smith deposition, pp. 12— —13)

. Dr. Sieber, who has performed over 5,000 back surgeries,
also testified that there are false positives and false negatix‘res

in diagnostic testiné (Sieber deposition, p. 7). He further

13

testified that he has missed herniatedwdiscs in his career. The
failure to find a herniated disc is not a failure to afford the
proper standard of care and that all the experts who testified in
the case Agree that failure to achieve success in surgery is not
indicative cf lack of proper standard of care.

Although the Hearing Officer stated that Dr. Day’s use
of midline incision was correct, he failed to note that Dr. Bonati
testified that all incisions for micrediscectomy start out midline
and then they go either right or left depending upon the
circumstances. (Transcriyt, p. 280)

17. The Hearing Officer erred in Finding of Fact numbe; 23
in that he should not have considered nor given any weight to the
testimony of Dr. Smolensky (see paragraph 1, m). The Hearing
Officer erred in accepting Dr‘. Smolensky's testimony as set forth
in the last two sentences of Finding of Fact number 23'that
Respondent had failed to properly remove the ligamentum flavin in
his first operatioh since it was visible in the second operatioh.
The testimcmy on this subject by Dr. Smolenaky (Transcript, pp.
203, 207-209, 212-215) graphically demonstrates Dr. Smolensky’s
gameamanship, his intentionally attempting to mislead the Heating
Officer_ by even suggesting that Dr. Bonati did not perform the
first operation appropriately. This is graphically demonstrated.
where Dr. Smolensky testified:

"Dr. Bonati described in the. secend operative
report about seeing the ligamentun flavin
again. And it was very difficult for me to

comprehend how he could see it again if .he had
removed it in the first place.

14

Of course, if he had not removed it in the
first place, then there'sho' way he could have
achieved -- completed a proper surgical
procedure." (Transcript, p‘. 212)

In cfoss-‘examination, this attempt to mislead was exposed and his

Charade was put at rest when counsel for Respondent asked:
"If, in fact, the first operation was no the
left and this statement about right was a typo
and the supine was a typo, then you would
expect to see the ligamentum flavin on the
right side when he went in for the first time
on the right side.
A; Yes, sir." (Transcript, p. 225)

Dr. Smolensky has never performed a microdiscectomy
(Transcript, p. 233) and he has never published in" any medical
journal and has never taught in any medical setting (Transcript,
p. 185).

18- The Hearing Officer erred in Finding of Fact number 24
based upon Dr. Smolensky’s testimony for the reasons heretofore
stated in paragraphs_l and 17 of Respondent's Exceptions.

19. The Hearing Officer erred in Finding of Fact number 25
in which he apparently accepted Dr. Smolensky's testimony that a
surgeon is taught that exposure is the key to success. The Hearing
Officer should have found that the advantages of the micrc
procedgre is a. smaller incision, less scar,’less trauma and that
the old statement that "expcsure is the key to success" is from a
very ‘Old school of thought. In‘fact, it has been found that

Patients do better and have better clinical results with smaller

incisions with less surgical trauma (Smith deposition, pp. 21, 22).

15

20.

The Hearing Officer erred in Finding of Fact number 27

in confusing Dr. Bonati's initial conclusion of low back strain

which impression he had on December 18, 1984 (Petitioner's Exhibit

5) with his opinion after removal of the inflammation and scar
tissue during the first surgical procedure. Dr. Bonati's clinical

findings in December, 1984 demonstrated that there was no

herniation because the straight leg raising was 90 degrees and the

patient did not complain of pain radiating down the leg

(Transcript, p. 266). After the surgery of July 24, 1985, her left:
sided pain ceased and Dr. Bonati rightfully assumed, as agreed to
bY all the experts, that he had solved the problem by-removal of
the adhesions surrounding the nerve. (Transcript, pp. 134—135,
231-232: Smith's depositioh, pp. 11-12; Sieber‘ deposition, p. 8-9)

‘ 21. The Hearing Officer erred in Finding of Fact number 23
by finding "it is found, from the evidence, that in both operations
Respondent performed on 243. 5, Respondent admits the possibility
he did not remove enough of the ligamentum flevun'. There is
Absolutely no support for such a conclusion. In fact, the contrary
is damonStrated by the testimony. At Transcript, p. 264,
Respondent: explained that he removed the ligament“ flavin to
visualize a nerve and stated further that if he did not remove the
ligament“ flavin, he would not be able to see the nerve and the
disc. (Transcript, p. 270) He testified that he did see the nerve
and saw the adhesions entrapping the nerve. He saw the disc but

did not see the herniation. He concluded after the second surgery.

that in order to see the disc, he would have to remove the lmihe

16

avoid removing the lamina by the mihimally invasive procedure of
micrediscectomy. (Transcript, pp. 264-265, 294-295, 291-293) The
Hearing Officer in such finding completely misinterpreted the
testimony of Dr. Bonati. ‘

22. The Hearing Officer erred in Finding of Fact number 29

in that he suggests by his last sentence‘of such paragraph that
RESPOndent should have exposed more of the spinal column as Dr. Day
did and that would have corrected the problem. Respondent cennot
be faulted by trying to use the most minimally invasive surgical
procedure then available in 1985, which is microdiscectomy.
(Transcript, pp. 112, 118, 226; Smith deposition, p. 22; Sieber
deposition, p. 10) He was trying to avoid the removal of the
lamina and the damage to the'back as demonstrated in Respondent's
Exhibit E, which is a picture of a laminectomy. Further, it is
clear from the testimony that the surgical procedures employed by
Dr. Bonati did not cause any residual damage to his petient.
(Smith deposition, 9. 18)

‘ Throughout his treatment of this patient, he tried to

use such-eonservativa procedures which he felt at the time would

Ms. S was first presented to Dr. Bonati in 1984, the CAT scan
showed a herniated disc at L3-L4. (Petitioner's Exhibit 4, History
and PhYSical Admitting Diagnosis 7/23/84) Had Dr. Bonati rushed

in and performed surgery on the basis of such imaging, it would

17

have resulted in an operation at 1.34.4“; which to this day has not
been necessary to perform. (Respondent's Exhibit H)

Furthermore; his clinical studies of leg lifts without
pain made him question whether there was a herniation at that time.
(Transcript p. 267; Petitioner’s Exhibit 5, Office Visit 12/18/84)
AS the pain persisted he obtained a myelogram which indicated a
herniation (Petitioner's Exhibit 4, 5/28/85 Myelogram Report) and.
Performed an opetation in July 1985 (Petitioner's Exhibit 4, 0?
Report 7/24/85), which he believed and had reason_ to believe
corrected the problem by removing adhesions surrounding the nerve.
When the patient later developed pain on the other side, he had
every reason to believe that a similar operation oh theright side
would correct that problem. (Transcript, pp. 134-135,. 231-232,
235; Smith's' Deposition, pp.'11-12; Sieber Deposition, pp. 8-9)
When he found that that did not correct the problem, then he
recommended that the patient receive mere invaqive surgery and
arranged for another surgeon to perform it. (Respondent's Exhibit
3)

23. The Hearing officer erred in‘Finding of Fact number 30
in finding that Respondent, being a microsurgeon, was emotionally
ill equipped to perform a laminectomy. The Hearing Officer
misinterpreted the testimony of Respondent. It was not that
becacse he was a “microsurgeon” he was emotionally ill equipped to
Perform a laminectomy. To. the contrary, he was trained and
experienced in performing laminectomies but he had attempted to uée

the less invasive procedure then available in spinal surgery. A:

13

he expressed in his testimony (Transciipt, p. 296), if, for some
reason, a laminectomy could not solve her problem, he would "feel
verylV Very, >vezy poor". Such a statement indieated a deep empathy
which the Respondent held for the patient and not a suggestion that
he lacked the experience or training to perform the more invasive
surgery. (Transcript, pp. 296-297)

24. The Hearing Officer erred in Finding of Fact number 32
in finding that Dr. sieber and Dr; Smith were of the opinion that
"a more extensive exposure during the secend surgery would have
been more prudent". Dr. Smith testified in answer to the question

"Would you agree that optimally the Respondent

should have increased the surgical area on the
second surgery in retrosgect?‘ ‘

A. I think in retrospect yes." (Smith
deposition, p. 30).

Hindﬁ‘ight is always 20/20 but at the time Dr. Bonati performed the
second operation, it was reasonable for him to believe the second
.OPEration would work as well as the first one had and be minimally
invasive. '(Smith deposition, 9. 28)

25. The Hearing officer erred 111 Conclusion of Law number 36
in finding that the CM: scan and myelogrem related to a herniated
disc at 1.4 and L5. The actual facts as shown by Ms. 5’: first
visit to Dr. Bonati at GCOC, on December 18, 1984, show that the
CAT scan was initially interpreted as showing a possible herniated
disc at level 1.3—1.4. (Sleber deposition, p. 17) The clinical
examination the patient, including straight leg raising up to 90
degrees Showed no clinical indication of a herniated disc. Later
Oil, when_ pain persisted, the myelogrem did show herniated disc

%

19

L4/L5 on the left side. (Petitioner’sggchibit 4, 5/28/85 Myelogram
Report) .

‘26.“ The Hearing Officer erred in Conclusion cf Law number 37
in the conclusion that "Respondent was reluctant to again‘operate
since a more extensive procedure, a laminectomy, was indicated".
The testimony reveals that Respondent, himself, was of the opinion
that laminectomy was indicated but his reluctance was based upon
the fact that he felt emotionally drained because of his lack of
success and thought the best thing to do would be to send her to
another doctor, (which he did. (Transcript pp. 296-297)

27 . The Hearing Officer erred; in his Conclusion-of Law number
38 ‘in that the last sentence is not the other side of the coin of
the first opinion expressed. Today, 10 years after the surgery on
Ms. 5: there are many advances in spinal surgery such as the use
of laser teehniques and Dr. Smith testified that in all areas of
surgery, due to advances that have been made, the procedures are
utilizing smaller incisions with less of a scar and less
POStOPerative morbidity (Smith deposition, p. 21).

28 . The Hearing Officer erred in his Conclusion of Law number
39- The Hearing Office: should have fouhd that the evidence shows
that When Ms. S was first presented to Respondent on December 18,
1984: the CT scan taken at the Tarpon Springs Hospital was
interpreted initially as a possible herniated disc .at the. level of
L3/L4~ (Petitioner’s Exhibit 4, Admitting Diagnosis 7/23/84) A
clinical examination of the patient by Dr. Bonati did not confirm

a herniation and to this date, the patiept has never had en

20

operation at L3/L4. Respondent cqntinued with conservative
treatment until it became apparent that there was a problem with
a possible _herniation and then, in July 1985, performed a
microdiscectomy on the left side which apparently relieved her
Problems. (Petitioner 3 Exhibits 4 and 5, Operative Report 7/24/85
Nurse's Notes, office Visits 8/2/85 and 8/8/85) Thereafter, Ms.
5 developed a different pain on the right side. (Petitioner's
Exhibit 5, Office Visits 8/2/85 and 8/8/85) Dr. Bonati was
justified in believing that another microdiscectomy would be able
to solve the new problem and performed an cperation in November,
1985 without success.

Respondent recognized that a more invasive procedure
would be necessary and recommended a Alaminectomy be performed arid
reéommended that she see another doctor, Dr. Day, to perform the
laminectomy. (Transcript, pp. 295-297) The failure of the
Operations to successfully accomplish their desired purpose is net
indicative of a lack of the appropriate standard of careu
(Transcript, pp. 137, 233, 338; Smith Deposition, p. 23) The
conservative approach of Dr. Bonati was appropriate in this case
and he is not guilty of violating Section 458.331(1)'(t), Mg;
Statutes.

29- Respondent takes exception to Conclusions of Law number
40, 41 and 42 and the Recommendation of the Hearing Officer insofar
as the}? require or suggest discipline to be inposed against

Respondent .

21

30- Respondent takes exception rte 'the Appendix to the
Recommended Order concerning the following specific rulings by the
Hearihg Ofﬁieer to the Proposed Findings of Feet of Petitioner.
Based on the foregoing, the Hearing Officer erred in his rulings
on the following Proposed Findings of Feet of Petitioner: 7, 8,
9, 10, ll, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 22, 25, 26, 27, 31, 32, 34, 36, and
38.

31. Respondent takes exception to the Appendix to the
Recommended Order concerning the following specific rulings by the
Hearing Officer to the Proposed Findings of Fact of Respondent.
The Hearing Office erred in his specific rulings on the following

preposed Findings of Fact of Respondent: 8, 19, 20, 21, and 22.

Respectfully submitted,

Paul B. Johnson, Esq g. of
JOHNSON E JOHN ON

Florida Bar No. 039966
Post Office Box 3416
Tampa, FL 33601
(813)223-5321

Attorneys for Respondent

22

6. Respondent’s exception to the Hearing Officer's Finding of
Fact Number 11 is rejected as the Hashing Officer's statement of
facts regarding occurrences on October 13, 1985, is legally
sufficient to describe factual findings of the Hearing officer
regarding the occurrences on that date.

7. Respondent's exception to the Hearing Officer’s Finding >of
Fact 12, regarding not making an additional finding regarding
certain progress notes in hospital records, .is rejected as
irrelevant; there is no legal necessity in determining the material
issues in this case to make such additional findings.

8. Respondent’s exception to the Hearing Officer’s Finding of
Fact 13, regarding an incident between the patient and the
ReSpondent is rejected as the Hearing officer specifically found
that the matter was material and the record reflects that cross
examination was terminated by the Respondent's attorney
voluntarily, not by order of the Hearing Officer.

9. Respondent’s exception to the Hearing Officer’s Finding of
Fact 14, in which the Respondent states that the Hearing Officer
did not" make additional findings of fact regarding Respondent’s
opinion o." why the patient had a weak back, in addition .to the~
findings made regarding the patient's opinion of why he had a weak
back, is rejected as the finding that was made is supported by
competent and substantial evidence in the record and credibility of
witnesses is a matter for the Hearing officer, not the Board.

10. Respondent’s exception to the Hearing officer’s Finding

of Fact‘ls regarding review of a CAT scan, is rejected as the

ram

QERTIFICATE Q? SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a copy hereof has been furnished to

Francesca Plendl, Senior Attorney,

Department of Business and

Professional Regulation, 1940 N. Monroe Street, Tallahassee, FL

32399— ~0792, by U. 5. mail this lgz‘l’hd day of July, 1994.

Cw

    

FILED

STATE OF PLO?m AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTF

nzpumam or susmzss AND pRc or-‘ch OF THE AGENCY CLERK
BOARD or man:
_ DEPUTYW/h (“7474
Dapnmmﬁr or ausnzzss AND CLERK 7
paorass "
Iomu. REGULATION, DATE )6] 4‘/

Petitioner,

DOAX C38. NOB. 93-2665
DBPR case N63. 89-13485

ALFRED O. BONA’I‘I, 14.!3'.
‘ Respondent,
_.________,____________.___I
R EPON 8 TO RESPOND ’ C O
COMES NOW the DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION, the Petitioner, by and through it’s undersigned
counsel, and hereby submit; this Response to the Respondent's
Exceptions to the Recommended Order of the Hearing Officer in this
matter, and states as follows:

1. -A formal hearing regarding this matter was held on April
27, 1994.3 on June 30, 1994 tﬁe Hearing Officer issued a
Recommended Order finding Respondent in violation of Section
458.531(1)(t), Florida Statutes. He recommended that~ the
Respondent be reprimanded and placed on twe years probation with
terms to be set by the Board. The Petitioner has filed a Motion ta
Increase Penalty to include e fine, and the Respondent has filed

'Exceptions.
2. The Respondent claims that the Hearing officer erred in
finding in his statement of preliminary matters that Department
expert Gerald Smolensky, M.D. should be allowed to testify. The

Respondent argues that Dr. Smolensky should not have been allowed

to do so, as he has found fault with Dr. Bonati's treatment of
patients in the past, and because he has a ;'professional dislike
for Dr. Bonati's professional conduct". The Respondent’s argument
is net sdpported by the facts, or by statutory or case law. In
many cases an expert has reviewed other. cases in which the
Respondent is involved. In many cases an expert may disagree with
the Respondent's course of professional conduct. There is no
support for the argument that this disqualifies an expert from
testifying.v V

3- The Respondent has stated that a Circuit Court judge,
disqualified Dr. Smolensky from performing an IKE in 1993.. The
Respondent fails to state that following his entry of the order,
the Circuit Court judge allowed Dr. Smolensky to testify fin two
cases, as, in the judge’s own' words there was m that he
Should be disqualified as an expert witness.

4. The Hearing officer heard argument at the formal hearing
regarding Dr. Smolensky being allowed t0 give an expert opinion.
In addition, the Respondent attempted to present evidence after the
hearing. Upon dhe consideration, the Hearing Officer ruled that
Dr. Smalensky was qualified to testify. >

5-, Dr. Smolensky's opinion was fully supported by the facts
of the case. In addition, the Department presented the testimony
of a second expert who was of the same opinion as Dr. Smolensky.

5- The Hearing Officer's statement of preliminary matters'was
supported by competent substantial evidence presented at hearing.

Section 120.570.) (b) (10), Florida statutes states that the agency

2

may not reject or modify the findings of fact unless the agency
first determines 'from a review of the complete record, and states

with particu_larity in the order, that the findings of fact were not
based upon competent substantial evidence or that the proceedings
on which the findings were based did not comply with essential
requirements of law. This exception should be rejected.

7. The Respondent has taken exception to the .Hearing
Officer's Finding of Fact Number 4. The Hearing Officer‘s Findings
of Fact were supported by competent substantial evidence presented
at hearing. Section 120.570.) (13) (10) , Floride Statutes states that
the agency may not reject or modify the findings of fact‘unless the
agency first determines from a review of the complete record, and
states with particularity in the order} that the findings of fact
were not based upon competent substantial evidence or that the
Proceedings on which the findings were based did not comply with
essential requirements of law. This exception should be rejected.

~8- The Respondent has taken exception to the Hearing
Officer's Finding of Fact Number 8. The Respondent asserts that
the testimony of the patient at hearing should be rejected as it
contradicts the testimony at the Respondent. This is ludicrous.
The Patient has a very clear memory of the pain that she suffered
thrcughout this ordeal, as shown by her testimony at hearing. It
is absurd to argue that the Respondent's memory of what the patient
> rePorted to him years ago should hold more weight.> The Hearing
Officer's Findings of Fact were supported by competent substantial‘

evideruze presented at hearing. Sectien 120.57(1)(b)(10), Florida

Statutes states that the agency max_not reject or modify the
findings of fact unless the agency first determines from a review
of the complete record, and states with particularity in the order,
that the findings of fact were not based upon competent substantial
evidence or that the proceedings on which the findings were based
did not comply with essential requirements of law. This exception
should be rejected.

9. The Respondent has taken exception to the Hearing
Officer's Findings of Fact Numbers 9, 10 and 11. The Respendent
asserts that the testimony of the patient at hearing that she was
in extensive pain after both the first and second surgery should be
rejected. The Respondent goes on to argue that if her testimony
were rejected, then Dr. Bonati was correct in thinking that he had
taken care of her herniateci disc. However, the patient stated
vehemently that the pain was um: relievedduring the time that
she was treated by Dr. Bonati. The Hearing Officer’s Findings of
Fact were supported by competent substantial evidence presented at
hearing. Section 120.57(1) (b) (10), Fiorida statutes states that
the agénicy may not reject or modify the findings of fact unless the
agency first determines from a review of the complete record, and
states with particularity in the order, that the findings of fact
were not based upon competent substantial evidence or that the
Proceedings on which the findings were based did not comply with
essential requirements of law. These exceptions should be

rej ected .

10. The Respondent has taker; exception to the Hearing
Officer's Findings of Fact Numbers 12 and 13. The Respondent
asserts that the testimony of the patient at hearing regarding the
RESPondent's actions after the second surgery should be rejected.
However, the patient had a clear recollection of the events. The
Hearing Officer's Findings of Fact were supported by competent
substantial evidence presented at hearing. Section
120-57(1)(b) (10); Florida Statutes states that the agency may not
l’eje':=t'. or modify the findings of fact unless the agency fitst
determines from a review of the complete record, and states with
particularity in the order, that the findings of fact were not
based upon competent substantial evidence or that theproceedinge
on which the findings were based did not comply with essential
requirements of law. This ekception should be rejected.

11. The Respondent has taken exception to the Hearing
Officer's Findings of Fact Numbers 14-16, 18—25, _-27 30 and 32. The
Hearing Officer’s Findings of Fact were supported by competent
substantial evidence presented at hearing. Section
120.57(1) (b) (10), Florida statutes states that the agency may not
reject or modify the findings of fact unless the agency first
determines from a review of the complete record, and states with
Particulafity in the order, that the findings of_ fact were not
based upon competent substantial evidence or that the proceedings
on which the findings were based did not complyvith essential

requirements of law .These exceptions should be rejected-

12. The Respondent has taken” exception to the Hearing

Officer’s ConcluSions of Law Numbers 36-42. The Hearing Officer’s

Conc}usionslof Law were supported by his Findings of Fact and by

the laws of the state of Florida. These exceptions should be
rejected.
13. The Respondent has taken exception to the Hearing

Officer's recommendation that a penalty be imposed upon the
Respondent. The Hearing Officer’s fecommendation is supported by
his Findings of Fact and by his Conclusione of Law except as set
forth in the Petitioner’s Motion to Increase Penalty.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner moves this Honorable Board to reject the
ReSpondent's Exceptions to the Recommended Penalty for the reasons
Stated above. Petitioner prays that this panel adopt in full the
Recommended order of the Hanerable Hearing Officer in this cause

except as set forth in the Petitioner's Motion to Increase Penalty.

Respectfully submitted,

_, 1
,‘ 7 I ' 'x’. 4/7. i( /

I A 4.
b ./ .',

Francesca Plendl
Senior Attorney

‘Florida Bar No. 765996
Dept. of Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, F1. 32399-0792
(904) 488—0062

caauncmg or gggvxcg

an.

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct'copy of the foregoing
has been furnished by U.S. Mail to Paul B. Johnson, Esquire, Post

Office Box 3416, Tampa, Florida 33601 this 1"“ day of Ju1y,
1994., - h” ,

Franceséa'Plendl
Senior Attorney

~FlLED

Demm'nent of Business and Prolessvonal Regutati‘
AGENCY CLERK
STATE OF FLORID;
. , DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATIOX
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT or BUéINESﬁ mm CLERK 514044 f' U M'
pxorzsszoyn REGULATION, DATEW

Petitioner, ‘
V.

DOM! case Nos. 93-2565
DBPR Case Nag. 89—13485

ALFRED O. BONNII, 14.0.

Respondent,

Ml
MOTION TO INCREASE PENALT!

COMES NOW, the Department of Business and Professional
Regulation, the Petitioner, and files this Motion to Increase the
Penalty recommended by the Honorable Hearing Officer on June 30,
1994, in this proceeding. ?he Petitioner respectfully requests
that the Board of Medicine increase the penalty recommendations of
the Racommended Order, and, as grounds therefore, would state:

1. I In this case the Hearing officer’s recommended penalty
.did not include a fine.

2- The Hearing Officer ﬁound the Respondent guilty _of
violating section 458.331(1)(t), Florida statues. At the time at
the offense, the Disciplinary Guidelines stated that the
recommended range of penalty for' a violation of such offense was
from two years probation to revocation or denial of licensure 5111;
an administrative fine from $250'to $5,000 (emphasisladded) . Rule
21M-20.001 [now Rule élQ-Z0.001], Florida Administrative Code.

3- The Guidelines reflect the policy of the Board with

respect to the appropriate discipline to be imposed for this

violation.

4- The Hearing Officer’s propqged recommended penalty far

Violating section 458.331(1) (t) , Florida statutes, falls below the
range of pen-alties set forth in the Disciplinary Guidelines in that
it does not include a fine.

5. The Department asserts that under the circumstances, where
the violation by the Respondent was substantial, that the penalty
should be greater than that recommended by the Hearing Officer.

6- In Criminal Justice Standagds and Igaining Commission v:

Bradley, 595 So. 2d 661 (Fla. 1992), the Supreme Court held as

follows:
"...it is a primary function of professional
disciplinary boards to determine the
appropriate punishment for the misconduct of
the professionals it regulates. As long as
the statute under which a professional agency
operates provides ‘ guidelines for imposing
penalties, the agency complies with Section
120.57(1)(b)10, and the increased penalty
falls within the guidelines established by its

statute, a professional board or agency has

the discretion to increase the recommended
penalty."

7-. In ﬁgadkx, the Court found that a professional regulatcry
board with the responsibility provided by the Legislature to
EXEI‘CiSe ‘its expertise in their designated specialties is the
enti‘ty‘ responsible for developing policy concerning penalties
within their professions. Thus, the Department urges this Board to
impose a penalty in this case consistent with the policy set forth
in the Board's Disciplinary Guidelines.

WHEREPORE, Petitioner respectfully requests that the Board of

Medicine? enter an Order increasing'the penalty as follows:

finding is supported by competent and substantial evidence in the
record, specifically the testimony ofmexpert Martin Silverstein,
M.D., at pages 92 and 93 of the transcript.

'11. 'Respondent's exception to the Hearing Officer’s Finding
of Fact 16, regarding removal of scar tissue, is rejected as
competent and substantial evidence in the record supports the
Hearing Officer’s finding that the matter in question was scar

.tissue{ Specifically the testimony of expert Martin Silverstein,
M.D., at pages 93, 96 and 100 of the transcript and Exhibit 4.

12, Respondent's exception to the Hearing Officer’s Finding
Of Fact Number 18, regarding the testimony of expert Martin
Silverstein, M.D., is rejected as it goes to the-credibility of a
witness. ‘

l3. Respondent’s exception to the Hearing officer’s Finding
of Fact Number 19, regarding Dr. Day performing a microdiskectomy,
is rejected as it éoes to the credibility of a witness and as
competent and substantial evidence in the recerd supports the
Hearing Officer’s finding that Dr. Day performed a microdiskectomy,
specifically the testimony of expert hartin Silverstein, H.D..at
page 106.

14. Respondent’s exception to the Hearing Officer's Finding
of Fact Number 20, en the Hearing officer's not making a finding on
what was 32; testified to at hearing in regards te the patient's
residual symptomology, is rejected as there was no legal necessity
in determining the material issues of this case that the Hearing

Officer make such findings.

1A The Respondent shall be sentenced as set forth by

the Heariﬁg officer in the Recommended Order, except that he shall

315° pay a Eggg in the amount of $5,000 within 180 days of the date
of the Final Order of the Board.

Respectfully submitted,

s/ /) I, /

/<, /}f n ¢.,“ ' 5',L L/

Francesca Plendl

Senior Attorney

Florida Bar No. 0765996 .

Department of Business and
Professional Regulation

Notthwood Centre

1940 North Honroe street,
Suite 60

Tallahassee, FL 32399-0792

C CA 0? 8 V C

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been furnished by U.S. Mail to Paul B. Johnson, Esquire, Post

Officeeox 3416, Tampa, Florida 33601 this 57/\ day of Jun},
1994. F**— . ~

«

';’\1; 1"

   
 

Francesce Plen 1
Senior Attorney

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND

PROFESSIONAL REGULATION, BOARD
OF MEDICINE,

Petitioner,

VS- CASE NO. 94-2665

ALFRED 0. BONATI, 24.0.,

Respondent.
_.____________________________

RECOMMENDED ORDER
A hearing was held in this case in Tampa, Florida on April
27: 1994, before Arnold H. Pollock, a Hearing Officer with the
Division of Administrative Hegrings.’
APPEARANCES
For the Petitioner: Francesca Plendl, Esquire
Department of Business and
Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792
For the Respondent: Paul B. Johnson, Esquire
Johnson 5 Johnson
Post Office Box 3416
Tampa, Florida 33601
STATEMENT OF THE ISSUES
The issue for consideration in this case is whether
Respondent, Alfred 0. Bonati's, license a: a medical doctor in
Florida should be disciplined because cf the matters alleged in
the Administrative Complaint filed herein.
PRELIMINARY MATTERS
BY Administrative Complaint dated November 3,‘ 1992, the

Department seeks to discipline_Respondeht's license to practice

medicine in Florida, alleging repeated malpractice or the failure
to practice medicine with that level of care, skill and treatment
which is recognized by a reasonably prudent physician as
acceptable under similar conditions and circumstances, in
violation of Section 458 331(1), Florida Statutes. ReSpondent
demanded formal hearing on the allegations and this hearing

followed.

At the hearing, Petitioner presented the testimony of
T'M-S-J the Respondent‘ s former patient, the treatment of whom
gives rise to the Administrative Complaint herein; and Drs.
Martin Silverstein and Gerald L. Smolinsky, both orthopedic
surgeons and experts in the field of orthopedic surgery.
Petitioner also introduced Petitioner' s Exhibits 1 through 10.
Respondent testified in his own behalf and presented, both by
deposition and video tape, the testimony of Dr. Grafton 1’.
51913973: an orthopedic surgeon. Respondent also introduced
Respondent's Exhibits A and B, and D through I. Respondent‘s
Exhibit C was cffered but not admitted. After the close of the
hearing, Respondent submitted the deposition testimony of Dr.
Richard C. smith, an orthOpedic surgeon, which was received into
evidence. '

SUbSEQUent to the hearing, Respondent filed a Motion to Open
TEStiNOHY To Receive Additional Exhibits. This related to the
offer, at hearing, of Respondent‘s Exhibit C,‘ an Order of a
Circuit JUdge in another matter in which the judge granted a‘
Motion For protective Order prohibiting Dr. Smolensky from

conducting an independent examination of a party to that suit.

151 his Order, the judge recited mattess presented to him at the
motion- hearing which tended to indicate” Dr. Smolensky 'was not
even-handeq in his approach to examinations regarding individuals
involved in automobile negligence matters. At 'the instanﬁ
hearing, counsel for Petitioner sought to support Dr. Smolensky
by indicating the judge‘s Order had "effectively been rescinded."

Enclosed with Respondent's current motion is the Clerk of
Court Docket regarding the suit in which Dr. Smolensk? was
Prohibited from conducting his examination, vfhich failed to show
any recision of the court‘s Order. ’Also enclosed was the
Petition to the District Court of Appeals for a.Writ of
Certiorari regarding the court's Protective Order, the Appeals
Court's Per Curiam denial of the petition; ahd the circuit
judge's Order judicially recognizing the Opinion.

In resPonse to the Motion, Petitioner enclosed a portion of-
a transcript of a hearing in Circuit Court on a Motion For
Disqualification of Dr. Smolensky in which the judge painted out
the doctor had testified as an expert in his court twice in the
previous week; The judge made clear that his ruling on the
Motion for Protective Order was based only on the evidence he
heard at‘ that hearing.

In substance, it would appear that Dr. Smolensky routinely
aPpears as an expert medical witness for insurance defense firms.
The case cited by Respondent related to a protective order tb_
keep Dr. Smolensky from conducting an examination toe party in a
negligence action. This is not the case here. Whereas in the

other cases he was being asked to evaluate the extent of and

expected duration of injury, in the ingsant case his expertise

was sought on (a question of professional performance. The

be seen. At worst, the matters offered in support Of
R85pondent's objection may go to the weight to be given to Dr.
Smolensky's testimony but there has been no showing his testimony
should not be received and considered in evidence. The Motion to
Open Testimony is, therefore, denied and the prior ruling denying

the offer of the prior Circuit Court Order, (Respondent's Exhibit

PINDINGS 01" FACT

1- At all times pertinent to the issues herein, the
Petitioner, Board of Medicine, (Board), was the state agency
responsible for the licensing of‘physiciane and the gegulatién of
the medicgl profession in Florida. Regpondent, Dr. Alfred 0.
Bonati, is ‘licensed as a medical doctor in Florida, and holds
license No. ‘MB 003.3324,

2? In November, 1984, T.M.S. was experiencing back problems
When She was doing strenuous work in her home. On November 13,
1984: she sneezed and experienced a sharp pain in her low baCk
and the back of both legs. She fell to the floor as a result,
but subsequently got up and drove herself to work. Shortly
thereafter; the pain increased and after several hours, she

called her husband and asked him to take her home. when she got

home, she called her family physiciakwho scheduled her for an
examination that day. The pain worsened, however, and when her
husband called the doctor back to report this, he was advised to
take her to the hospital where the doctor would meet them.

3- When Ms. S. arrived at the emergency room, the doctor
took x—rays and examined her. Thereafter, he gave her a shot and
a Prescription for pain and sent her: home for strict bed rest.
She complied, but after being home only 10 minutes, experienced
"terrible" back spasms. When her husband called the emergency
r00!“ doctor about this, he advised brihging her to the hospital
in an ambulance, and upon arrival, she was admitted.

4. At the hospital, Ms. S. was seen by her family doctor
and two others he called ln, an orthopedic surgeon and a
neurologist? While Ms. S. was in the hospital, she underwent a
CAT scan and was diagnosed as having a herniation at L 4-5, and a
ballooning at L 3-4. She was released from the hospital with an
order of six weeks strict bed rest and traction, and
prescriptions for various medications. After four weeks with no
improvement, she called her tamily physician who referred her to
Dr. Bonati on December 15, 1984.

5. ' When Ms. 5. went. to her first office visit with the
Respondent, she brought her x-rays and CAT scan results and
OUtliHEd for him the sequence of events described above.
R98pondent conducted an examination of Ms. 5. in his office,
after which he told her she had a torn muscle, not a herniated
diSC- He indicated to her that with rest, the muscle would heal
and the pain leave. In addition, however, he gave her an

injection for pain.

6. Ms. 5. saw Respondent two or thgse more times before her
visit in April, 1985. On each visit, she told him the pain was

not going away. In response, he told her to be patient and to

her for Pain — nothing else. When, at the April visit, some five
months after she started seeing Respondent without relief, he
suggested doing another CAT scan, she advised him then she had
brought with her on her first visit the results of her CAT scan,
and he then indicated he wanted to do a myelogram. Before this
time, however, even though She had suggested other tests, he had
declined to do any.

7- Ms. 5. went to the hospital for three days in April,
1983 for the myelogram. AfterWards, Respondent told her the test
ShOWEd two herniations, one at L 3-4 and one'at L 4—5, and
recommended surgery. He performed the surgery in July, 1985,
delaying to that time because of his absence from the country
She claims to have been in constant pain the entire time.

8. Following the surgery, however, Ms. 5. was in worse pain
than before, experiencing pain in additional areas of her body.
When Respondent came to see within an hour after she woke up, he
aPpeared to be upset. He asked her then why she had [not told him
she had meningitis. Though she hadr never had that disease, he
claimed her back was‘full of scar tissue,

9- When Ms. 5. went to see Respondent again, to have the
stitches removed, ten days after she was released from the
hospital, She advised him of continuing and increased pain. He

indicated the pain could be caused by several things! muscle

relaxation, nerve reaetion, or tendonLﬁs which, he decided, was
the actual cause of her pain. He told her to continue the
electrical.stimulation and the pain would go away. It never did
though she continued to see him periodically and report pain.

10- In October, 1985, she again went to see Respondent,
alarmed due to her Iconstant pain. At this point, Respondent said
he needed ta do another myelogram, which he did, and afterwards
told her it showed a herniated disc at L 4—5. He told her at
this time she must have re—injured her back and recommended a
second surgery. She agreed;

ll. Respondent pexformed the second operation'withouc any
resultant change in her pain level. He indicated to her he had
again Seen a lot of scar tissue which he cleaned out and her
spine was now perfect. Nonetheless, when she saw him again after
her discharge from the hospital, she told him her pain etill
existed and was increasing. She told him she also was
experiencing numbness in her foot and pain in her hip.

12- In December, 1985, Ms. 5. called Respondent about her
pain and he put her into the hospital _for stronger pain
medication and traction. At this time, she told him of a test
she had‘heard of, magnetic resonance imaging, (MRI), and asked
him about it. He advised her that he was familiar with it; that
it was being done in St. Petersburg; That same day, he hdlﬁitted
her to the hospital where the test was to be administered. Ms.
5' was Put in traction and administered pain medication while she
waited far the results of the MRI The MRI staff had indicated

to her that the results would be sent with priority to Respondent

the.same day the test was done, but Respondent‘s office personnel
indicated it was not received. Finally, Ms. s.’s father picked
Up a guplicate copy of the MRI test results from the
administering facility and delivered it to the Respondent.

13- That evening, Respondent came to Ms. s.'s hospital
room, angry and agitated, and warned her against trying to sue
him. At this point, she' claims, she had never mentioned suit.
He left her room and came back the next day. On that visit, he
said he felt she was dissatisfied with him and needed to get a
second opinion. He gave her some choices and she picked Dr.” Day,
on staff at Shands Hospital in Gainesville.

14. Ms. 5. saw Dr. Day in January, 1986. When she went for
her examination, she took her records to Dr. Day, but he did not
look at them He recommended additional surgery which he did.
When she woke up from that surgery, her pain was gone. She still
has back problems, but attributes them to a weak back.

15- Dr. Martin Silverstein, an orthopedic surgeon and an
expért in orthopedic surgery, reviewed the medical records
pertaining to Ms. S.'s case and was‘ present in the hearing room
during her testimony. His review of the results of the CAT scan
indicated ‘a possible herniated disc. ‘ The symptoms described by
Ms' S“ are consistent with that diagnosis.

15- While a CAT scan is of 'some diagnostic benefit, the
myelogram is very helpful in diagnosing a herniated disc. His ‘
review of the myelogram done of Ms. S.‘s spine in May, 1985}
showed a Prominent left side herniated disc at L 4-5 with some

lesser effect on L 3-4. In the July, 1985 surgery, Respondent

did not take out disc material. His procedure was to dc a small
incision at.L 4-5 on the right side, (Dr. Silverstein felt this
description df "right" side might be a typographical error), and
get to the disc, but the record does not show Respondent removed
any bone or tissue getting there. He noted scar tissue which he
removed, and the records denote Respondent saw the disc to be
intéCt- As a result, he irrigated and closed the wound properly.
Dr. Silverscein categorized this procedure by Respondent as

merely an exploration of a disc space and removal of adhesions.

l7~ The second myelogram showed persistence of a herniated
disc at L 4-5 and a lesser bulge at L 3-4. This was no change to
what was shown on the myelogram done prior to the first surgery.
Nonetheless, the second surgery done by Respondent, in November,
1985, again did not remove any. disc material. Again, the record
Shows Respondent saw lots of scar tissue, which he debrided, and

saw the‘ disc to be intact. I Again, he merely irrigated and

’18- In Dr. Silverstein's opinion, the Respondent's first
surgery did not take care of the problem in that he didn‘t remove
the herniated disc. The Respondent's second surgery differed
from his first only in that he approached from the right side
instead Of the left side, and both myelograms showed herniation
On the left side. This was, in his opinion, improper.

19. During the patient's third surgery, by Dr. Day at

ShandS‘HOSpital in January, 1986, the physician did a bona fide

15. Respondent’s exception to the Hearing Officer’s Finding
of Fact Number 21, regarding the manner in which Dr. Bonati fell

below the .standard of care, is rejected as it goes to the

in the record supports the Hearing Officer’s finding that Dr.
Bonati fell below the standard of care as described, specifically
the testimony of expert Martin Silverstein, M.D. at pages 111 and
141 of the transcript.

16. Respondent's exception to the Hearing Officer’s Finding
of Fact Number 22, regarding the professional credentials and
experience of expert Martin Silverstein, is rejected as it goes to
the credibility of a witness.

l7. Respondent’s exception to the Hearing officer’s Finding
of Fact Number 23, regarding what weight the Hearing officer shoﬁld
giVe to the testimony of expert Gerald Smolensky, M.D., is rejected
as it goes to the credibility of a witness, a matter for the
Hearing Officer and not the Board.

18. Respondent's exception to the Hearing Officer's Finding
of Fact Number 24, that the Hearing Officer should not rely on the
testimony of expert Gerald émolensky, M.D., is rejected as it ﬁoes
to the credibility of a witness, a matter for the Hearing officer
and not the Board.

19. Respondent’s exéeption to the Hearing officer's Finding
‘of Fact Number 25, that the Hearing Officer should not accept the
testimony of expert Gerald Smolensky, M.D., is rejected as it goes

to the credibility of a witness.

microdiscectomy, removing the ligamentum¢glavum. In doing so, he
significantly increased exposure so he could see the problem
better. _ This has a more adequate procedure and allowed him to
see the herniated disc which he then removed. The patienﬂs

absence Of pain after the surgery is consistent with removal of

20- ~Acccrding to Dr. Silverstein; had the disc not been
removed it could have extruded and become an emergency problem.
Also, the longer there is preésure on a nerve, the less likely it
is to recover. The patient could «be left with residual
SWPtOMOlOgy such as pain and numbness.

21- In Silverstein's opinion, Respondent's performance was
nOt consistent with the standard of care for physicians which
existed in 1934/1995 in that he-failed to go far enough in these
Operations to find and remove the patient's problem which existed
throughout that time. This is. not to say that microdiscectomy,
the Procedure Respondent utilized in both the surgeries he
Performed, is net an accepted procedure. It is, even though Dr.
Silverstein does not use it. Instead of using a microscope to
examine the tissue within the incision, he uses a loup which,
when combined with a someWhat more extensive incision, affords
the PhYSician a greater opportunity to identify the problem. It
is in .this failure to properly disclose the problem that
Silverstein sees Respondent‘s failure, not merely the failure to
achieve a favorable result.

22- TO be fair, Dr. Silverstein admits the Respondent‘s

decision to go micro on the first surgery was appropriate and his

PrOcedure was correctly done. Since he did not see a herniated
disc, he did_not do the discectomy, but the witness believes that
had‘Responden’: seen a herniation, he would have done the right
thing. Here, however, since the myelogram showed herniation both
times, Respondent was alerted to the actual condition.
MYElOQIams are normally reliable and Dr. Silverstein knows of no
incident where a myeiogram showed. pathology which did not
actually exist when the surgeon got inside. _ Dr. Day's use of~'a
midline incision large enough to disclose the problem, which
permitted him to then approach the disc from the right side, was‘
the Correct way to treat the problem.

23- Dr. Smolensky concurs with the conclusions drawn by Dr.
Silverstein. His review of the records indicates that the second
myelogram, shows an aggravation of the herniation of the disc over
that Which existed before the first surgery. In his second
Sm='<.?icel report, Respondent stated he could see the ligamentum
flavum. Had Respondent removed that in his first surgery, it
would not have been there for the second, and since he did not
remove it in the first surgery, he could not have repaired-the
problem then.

245 The records also show that Dr. Day ‘removed a lesion
that was so big, Dr. Smolensky cannot see how Respondent could
have missed it unless he failed to remove the ligamentum flavum,
and one cannot find any abnormality as suspected here without
905-“9 past: that. For these reasons, and because three weekslwere
aliowed 12:; go by without any action after the second surgery in

WhiCh the abnormality was found, but primarily because

Respondent did not extend his exploration far enough to discover

the ektent of the patient's problem, Smolensky is of the opinion

Respondent 5 care did not meet the standards as they e.xisted in
1984/1985.

25. , Dr. Smolensky has no criticism of Respondent‘s
management of the patient from when he first saw her, nor of his
POStOPErative treatment after the first surgery. By the same
tOkEHI he does not quarrel with Respondentfs use of a micro
Procedure, if that is what, in fact, was used. His criticism
rests with the Respondent's exposure. A surgeon is taught that
expOSure is the key to success. The more that can be seen, the
better the result. There must be a balance against the increased
risk of morbidity and instability. While Smolensky finds little
to fault ResPondent with as a result of the first procedure, he
has definite problems with Respondent's performance in the second
surgery, for the reasons noted above.

26. Respondent, a self-stYled expert in arthroscopic
surgery 0f the spine, who, he relates, lectures worldwide on the

'SubjeC€l began to use microsurgery because of the difficulties he
had seen occur as a result of the use of laminectomy procedures.
He, therefore, developed instrumentation and procedures which are

now being used worldwide, and which, he claims, do less damage to
the patient. V ‘

27- He believes, regarding the first surgery he performed
on MS- S‘IIQQQ, that when he was cleaning up all the inflammation
and scar tissue, he pushed the bulging disc back in place.

Before this, the patient had normal movement range, even though

She complained of back pain. Thereigre, he concluded she had
only a low back strain which, he felt, could be controlled by

rest and the use of the stimulator.

28. It is found, from the evidence, that in both operatione
Respondent performed on Ms. 5., Respondent admits the possibility
he did not remove enough of the ligamentum flavum. He asserts
Ms. S-‘s claims of continuing pain on the left side are not
SUPPOrted by the nurses‘ notes after the surgery which indicate
that MS- S. received only tylenol for her pain and was
ambulatory. After that surgery, she was in the hospital for
three days and came to his office somewhat later. At the time of
her visit, he relates, she indicated her prior paineon the left
side was gone and complained of pain on the riéht side and in her
buttocks.

29- hidline disc surgery is, Respondent claims, a nightmare
5°75 surgeons and herniations are missed regularly. when he did
the second surgery, he still could not see the problem. He did
not make a larger incision in this second surgery because he
believed the' problem on the left side was solved and that the
Problem on the right was the same and could be correeted by the
use of the smaller incision process. He claims that for him to
make a' large: incision would mean he was not then doing
microsurgery which was what the patient had agreed to. On the
basis of this evidence, it is clear that had he exposed more of
the Spinal column, he most likely would have seen the patient‘s
problem, as Dr. Day did, and could have corrected it.

30- When the patient woke up in continuing pain after the

second surgnrv DngnnnﬁA—& A:——»——A4 "

appropriate for this patient but, being a micro surgeon, he
claims to have been emotionally ill equipped to do it. The later
surgery by Dr. Day at Shands corrected the problem. Respondent's
P°5t OPErative communications with Dr. Day indicate that as late
as 1988, as a result of the last surgery, Ms. S. had an unstable
leCk- This was the condition, Respondent claims, thch often
comes about as the _result of laminectomy, and which he was trying
to avoid by doing micro surgery.

31- Both Dr. Seiber and Dr». Smith, orthopedic surgeons who
Specialize in backs, examined the medical charts and records
pertaining to Respondent‘s treatment of Ms. 8.. They also
reviewed the deposition given by Dr. Day and that doctor“ 5
records of his treatment of Ms. S. at Shanda. They traced the
course Of Respondent's treatment of Ms. S. from when she first
came t0 see him until the end. They both conclude that the
Respondent failed to find the herniated disc which was present
through bOth surgeries, but both Seiber and Smith opine the
failure to find a herniated disc does not necessarily constitute
a failure to afford the proper standard of care to the patient.
As Seiber States, "Sometimes we miss the disk."

32- - Based on their examination of all the relevant,
available material in this case, both Dr. Seiber and Dr. Smith

C0391UG9—d Raspondent's failure to find the herniated disk in his

Operations ‘of July,.1985 and November,.l985 did not constitute a
failure to afford appropriate standard of care to his patient on
either, occgsion, albeit a more extensive exposure during the
second surgery would have been more prudent. Dr. Seiber has
known Respondent for a number of years and, even since thé
operations on Ms. 5., has sent him several patients far surgery.

In faCtr he has allowed Respondent to operate on him for a"
herniated disk at L 4-5, right side.
coucmsrons or LAW

33 - The Division of Administrative Hearings has
jurisdiction over the parties and the subject matter in this
case. Section 120.570.), Florida Statutes.

34- Petitioner seeks to ‘discipline the Respondent‘s license
as a medical doctor in Florida because, it alleges, hé is guilty
Of gross or repeated malpractice or the failure to practice
medicine with that level of care skill, and treatment which is
r9¢°9nized by a reasonably prudent similar physician as being
acceptable under similar conditions. and circumhtances in that he
failed to repair a herniated disc after performing, twc separate
surgeries. If proven, such misconduct would be in violation of
Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes.

35- The burden of proof in this case is on the Petitioner
‘50 PEDVE its allegation by clear and convincing evidence. Ferris
mm, 510 So.2d 292 (Fla. 1937).

35- The basic facts of this case are not in issue.
Respondent was called upon to treat Ms. 5. in 1985, for pain in

her back which, based on a CAT scan and a myelogram, was related

to a herniated disc at L-4 and L—S. He elected to perform miscro
surgery on his patient, with her concurrence, and in performing a
microdiecectomy on the left side in the pertinent area,

diSCOVEIF-‘d scar tissue and lesions which he believed were the

inCiSiOU Without discovering the herniated disc which the prior
CAT scan and myelogram had shown. This did not, however, resolve
MS- S-‘S P‘roblem’. ‘ .

37- Some time later, when she continued to complain of back
pain, Similar but located elsewhere from the seat of the earlier
pain, he did another myelogram which again indicated the
hernia“ disc at L-4/5. Again, with the consent of his patient,
he did another microdiscectomy, this time approaching from the
right Side tether than the left due to the location and nature of
her SUbjective symptoms. For the second time he discovered scar
tissue and lesions but not the herniation, end after removing the.
scar “155119, closed; This, too, did not relieve Ms. S.'s pain,
and when She suggested a magnetic resonance imaging test, he
Vagreed. This test apparently also revealed the herniation, hut
Respondent was reluctant to again operate since a more extensive
procedure,‘ a laminectomy, was indicated. Respondent was
forthright With Ms. S. and recommended the matter be handled by
another Surgeon and, to his credit, assisted her in finding a
qualified surgeon, Dr. Day. When Dr. Day performed his
operation, opening more of the body area to examinationkhe‘
immediately found the herniated disc, repaired it, and closed,

which, it would appear, substantially relieved Ms. S. '5 'pain.

38. There is a divergence of Opinion en the better way to
accomplish back surgery. Respondent claims that the larger the
incision Made in the back( the more likely the surgeon is to
create future instability in the back. This Opinion is shared by
a respectable body of surgeons. On the other hand, there is an

equally valid Opinion that without proper exposure, the ability

39- On balance, the evidence that Respondent, having once
performed micro-surgery on his patient without success, and being
confronted with another myelogram which clearly indicated there
was a herniated disc involved, should have, on‘ the second
surgery, gene beyond repeating, on the opposite side, what had
been shown to be an inadequate procedure for this patient, and
his failure to do so constitutes a violation of Section
458.33l(l)(t), Florida Statutes.

40- This leaves for: resolution the issue of an appropriate
penalty for the misconduct established. Petitioner suggests as
an aPPrOPriate penalty a reprimand, an administrative fine cf
55:000-00, probation for 2 years and a requirement‘for 30 extra
hours 0f continuing medical education. V'I'he Department has
PromUlga‘ted a rule fer the Board; Rule 213-37.001(2), F.A.C.,
WhiCh PrOVides a range of penalties for violations of the
PIOViS-ion in issue here. The rule requires the Board ‘to take
into consideration certain factors in assessing penalty.

41g To be sure, medical Malpractice is serious and often
constitutes a danger to the public. ‘It was, here, to

Respondent's patient. However, the incident took place a long

time ago and, though there is obviously ggme distaste among other
practitioners for Respondent's practice, there is no evidence of
any pripr disciplinary action. He has practiced medicine in
Florida for a considerable length of time and the evidence does‘
not establish that the patient in issue here suffered any
permanent injury as a result of Respondent‘s malpractice.

42- ’ Clearly, a reprimand is appropriate as is the
Jfem:irement for a period of probation. However, there is no
eVidence that Respondent’s malpractice was financially motivated
or that he was unjustly enriched by his mischnduct. For that
reason, it is not felt that a substantial fine, which would not
benefit the patient, Would serve any useful purposé.

RECOHMENDATION

Based 6n the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of
Law, it is, therefore: ‘

RECOMRDED that a Final Order be issued by the Board of
.Meéicine finding that Respondent': treatment of this patient was
in violation of the provision of Section 458.331(l)(t). M
35—15%; and imposing a reprimand. and probation fortwo years
under SUCh terms and conditions as the Board may. require,
including; if appropriate, a ~reﬁuiremem: for additional

continuing medical education.

momma this 30th day of July, 1994, in Tallahassee,

Florida.

 

7
,Zdbt'[;(/ {hf 7‘_Z[(crz K

; ARNOLD H. POLLOCK, Hearing Officer
Division of Administrative Hearings
The DeSoto Building
1230 Apalachee Parkway

Tallahassee, Florida 32399~1550
(904) 488—9675

Filed with the Clerk of the
Division of Administrative Hearings
this 30th day of July, 1994.

APPENDIX TO RECOMMENDED ORDER
IN CASE NO. 93-2664
The following constitutes my specific rulings pursuant to

Section 120.59(2), Florida Statutes, on all of the Proposed Findings
Of Fact submitted by the parties to this case.

FOR THE PETITIONER:

1' ‘ 4~ Accepted and incorporated herein.
5- Accepted.
5' * 9~ Accepted and incorporated herein.
10- Accepted and incorporated herein.
11- - 13- Accepted and incorporated herein.
14- G 15- Accepted and incorporated herein.
15- 5 17- Accepted and incorporated herein.

18a‘ Accepted and incorporated herein.
19- - 21. Accepted and incorporated herein.

22- Accepted.

23- 5 24~ - Accepted and incorporated herein.
25- 5 26- Accepted and inactporated herein.
27' ’ 39- Accepted and incorporated herein.

31~ Accepted.

32- Though framed by Petitioner in language directly tracking
the terms of the regulatory statute allegedly violated,
the proposed finding properly indicates that
Respondent's management of this patient was improper and
below a prudent level of care, skill, and treatment accep

under similar conditions and circumstances.
33‘ 5 34- Accepted and incorporated herein.

35- 5 35-_ Accepted and incorporated herein.
37- Rejected.
33- Accepted.
39- Rejected.

20. Respondent's exception to the Hearing Officer's Finding
of Fact 27, regarding the Respondent’sﬁfindfngs during the first
Surgery, is rejected as there is competent and substantial evidence
in the reéore that supports the Hearing Officer's finding that the
Respondent believed he pushed the disc back into place,
Specifically the testimony of the Resﬁondent at page 165 of the
transcript and in Exhibit 5.

21- Respondent's exception to the Hearing Officer’s Finding
of Fact 28 is accepted in that there is no evidence in the record
of such an admission by the Respondent.

22- Respondent's exception to the Hearing Officer's Finding
of Fact Number 29, that the Respondent should have exposed more of
the Patient's shine as Dr. Day did, is rejected, as it goes to the
credibility of a witness.

23. Respondent's exception to the Hearing Officer's Finding
of Fact 30, regarding the Respondent's abilities, is accepted to
the extent that the portion of Paragraph 30, which begins on Line
5 and provides "... but, without 'being a microsurgeon..." is
rejected. The remainder 0: Paragraph 30 is accepted.

24. Respondent‘s exception to the Hearing Officer’s Finding
of Fact 32, regarding the testimony of the Respondent's expert
witnesses, is rejected as the finding is supported by competent and
substantial evidence in the record, specifically the testimony of
Graftdn Sieber, M.D. at page 20 of Exhibit B and the testimony of

Richard Smith, M.D. at page 28 of Exhibit J.

FOR THE RESPONDENT:

~

1. 5 Accepted and incorporated herein.

Accepted and incorporated herein as appropriate.

Accepted and incorporated herein.

Accepted and incorporated herein.

Accepted.

Accepted and incorporated herein.

- .Rejected to the extent Respondent was justified in
assuming a similar operation on the other could properly

address his patient‘s problem, or that the repetition

of an identical procedure would be acceptable.

9. - 11. .Accepted and incorporated herein.
12. Accepted.

13. Accepted as a statement of Respondent's position and
consistent with his testimony at hearing.
14. & 15. Accepted.

16- - 18- Accepted.

19- - 21- Rejected as contra to the weight of the evidence.
22. Rejected.

muanAwN

COPIES FURNISHED:

Professionallaegulation
1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792

Paul B. Johnson, Esquire
Johnson & Johnson

Post Office Box 3416
Tampa, Florida 33614

Jack McRay

Acting General Counsel
Departmsnt of Business and

, Florida 32399-0792

Dr. Marm Harris

Executive Director

Board 0: Medicine

1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee , Florida 32399-0792

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO SUBMIT EXCEPTIONS

, All Parties have the right to submit written exceptions to
tth Recommended Order. All agencies allow each party at 1east
iQ_Qé¥§ in which to submit written exceptions. Some agenCLes

allow a larger period within which to submit written exceptions.
You should consult with the agency which will issue the Final
Order in this case concerning its rules on the deadline for
filing excegtions to this Recommended Order. Any exceptions to
this Recommended Order should be filed with th

e agency which will
issue the Final Order in this case.

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONKL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT o'F PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

pmmxonm,
vs. CASE NO. 3913435
ALFRED 9. 30mm, 5.1:.

RESPONDENT.

MI
W

COMES now the Petitioner, Department at Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred ta an “Petitioner,” and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Kedicine against

ALFRED 0. BONATI, 14.0., hereinafter raterred to an "Respondent,“
and alleges:

1- Petitioner is tha stat. agnncy charged with regulating
the Practice of medicine pursuant to suction 20.30, Florida

StatUtel: Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chaptnr 458, Flcrida
Statutes.

2- Respondent i- and has been at an tines uterial horato
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
licenae‘ mung:- HE 0038324. Respondent's last known addreu i: 7315
Hudson Ave, Hudson Florida 34667—1158.

3'- On or about December 18, 198‘, Patiant #1, a thirty eight
(33) year old female presented to Respondent's office as a referral

frO‘ Tarpon Spring: General Hospital. Patient #1 proscntad with ‘a

Computerized Axial Tomography (CAT) scan and some x—rays which

.

revealed a diagnosis of herniated disc at the L4—L5 level.

4- Respondent diagnased Patient #1 with low back strain,
Possible herniated lumbar facia at th. level of the left sacroiliac
jcint, disagreeing with the diagnosis of a herniated disc; even
though the CAT Scan and X-rayl demonstrated a herniated disc.
Respondent treated Patient #1 conservatively with medication.

5- On or about May 27 1985, Patient #1 continued to

Complain of pain on the left. side or the upper back radiating to
the left leg.

5- on or about July 24, 1985, Respondent peitomed a
microdiskectony, but :ound no herniation at the 1.4-1.5 levol and did
not examine tho disc at L3-L4.

I 7- Patient {1's condiiion did not improve pcltopcrativcly.

3- On or about November 13, 1985, R-npcndcnt performed a
5‘60“ Iicrodiakccto-y at thc M-Ls lovul in which ha found
adhesion: at: the nerve root, but tailod ta 11nd a ruptured disc or
‘any bulging.

9- on or about January 14, 1986, Dr. Arthur L. Day, a
neurosurgeon, patterned a nicrodiukoctony, tn. :3an procedure
Respondent had performed at 1.4/1.5 lavel; however, Dr. Day
identitim a vary large rupturcd disc which ho ruovod.

10. Respondent is guilty of gross or repaated nalpractica or
the failure to practice uedicinn with that lcvul of cart, skill,
and traatnent‘which is recognized by a rcalonably prudcnt linilar'

PhYSician a: being acceptablc pander similar conditions and

circumstances in that Respondent failed to repair a herniated disc
on Patient #1, after performing two separate surgeries.

11. Bgsed on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1S(t), Florida statutes, through gross or repeated
malpractice or the failure to tractica medicine with that level of
care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
Prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances. ‘

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Boatd‘of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
Penalties: revocation or suspension cf the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent’s practice, impasition of an
administrative fine, issuanch Of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other raliat that the Board
deems appropriate. " ,

f m,,/ . 2'”
SIGNED this .9’ day 0: /; -;- :7 36’ ( , 1992.

 

 

 
  

Georg. 'Stuapt Secratgﬁy'
/

. .»//—~.7/

-/ Larry . HbPherson,’-J .
Medical Attorn-

    
 

    

COUN‘SEL. FOR DEPARTMENT:

Lagry G- McPherson, Jr.
Chler Medical Attorney

Eggartment or Professional Regulation F l L E D

0 North Monroe street aqwbmm
Tallghassee, Flcrida 32399-0750 Demnmemmprgiessbmcm;
Florlda Bar #788643 AGEN
CJR/leg ( °
Per}: October 27, 1992 “M
Kalser and Dauer ‘

um

 

V -' ’p;
3 DARW-

Q3 @

NOT FINAL UNTIL TIME EXPiRES TO FILE REHEARING
MOTION AND, IF FILED, DETERMINED

IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL
OF FLORIDA

SECOND DISTRICT

ALFRED OCTAVIUS BONATI. M.D..

Appellant.

v. Case No. 94~03594

)
)
)
)
)
)
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE )

ADMINISTRATION, and THE FLORIDA
STATE BOARD OF MEDICINE.

)
)
)
Appellees . )
)

 
 

 

DEPARTMENT OF 332%
PROFESSIONRIL REGE

  
    

   

 

Opinion filed August 4, 1995.

Appeal from the Division of
Administrative Hearings .
GERERAL COUNSEL’S OFFICE
Jonathan w. Lubell of Morrison,
Cohen. Singer & Weinstein, LLP.
New Ycrk, New ank, and v ~
Salvatore A. Carpino. Tampa, and
Jenn A. Schaefer of Johnson.

Luakely. Fope, Baker, Ruppel &

Burns, P.A.. Clearwater, for
Appellant.

Kathryn L. Kasprzak and Lisa S.
Nelson. Assistant General
Counsel, Department of Business
and Professional Regulation,
Tallahassee. for Appellee Agency
for Health Care Administration.

Robert A. Butterworth, Attorney
General. Claire D. Dryfuss, and
u. Catherine Lanton, Assistant
Attorneys General, Tallahassee,

 

PER-CURIAM.

Affirmed.

THREADGILL, c.J., and ALTENBERND and LAZZARA. JJ., Concur.

I.
I

 
    
   
   

’ MANDA'Fr‘i‘Efw '

FROM IGEMERAL ceueszts emcs

DISTRiCT COURT OF APP Rm
SECOND DISTRICT

 

SI YLE: Alfred O. Bonati, M.D. v. Agency for Health Care Admin.
m
COUN I Y: Hillsborough

APPELLATE CASE NO: 94—03594
TRIAL COURT CASE NO: 93-02665

 

 

This cause having been brought to this Court by appeal and after
due consideration, the Court having issued its opinion; '

\{OU ARE HEREBY COMMANDED that further proceedings be
hed m said cause in accordance with the opinion of this court and
with the rules of procedure and laws of the State of Florida.

Witness, The Honorable Richard H. Frank, Chief
Judge of District Court of Appeal of the State of

Florida, Second District, and the Seat of the said.
Court at Lakeiand, Fiorida on this day.

September 135 1995

William A.Haddad

Clerk District Court of Appeal
of Florida, Second District

 

 

25. Respondent’s exception to the Hearing Officer's
Conclusion of Law 36, regarding finéings in the CAT scan and
myelogram, is rejected because the Conclusion of Law is merely a
restétemeht‘ of facts supported by competent and substantial
evidence in the record.

26. Respondent’s exception to the Hearing Officer’s
Conclusion of Law 37, regarding the Respondent's reluctance to
Operate, is rejected because the Conclusion of Law is a restatement
of facts supported by competent and substantial evidence in the

record.

27. Respondent’s exception to the Hearing Officer’s

Conclusion of Law 38, describing the "other side of the coin"
regarding amount of exposure needed during 'back surgery, is
rejected as it misstates the Hearing officer's findings and there
is competent, substantial evidence to support the Conclusion of Law
that without proper exposure, the ability to correct a defect is
substantially diminished.

28. Respondent’s exception to the Hearing officer’s
Conclusion of Law 39, that the Respondent was justified in the
manner he performed the second surgery, is rejected as there was,
through expert testimony, competent and substantial evidence to
support this Conclusion of Law.

29. Respondent's exceptions to the Hearing Officer's
Conclusions of Law 40, 41, and 42, regarding diScipline, are
rejected as the discipline is appropriate, except that based upon~

the mitigating factors in this case, that Respondent was attempting

a less invasive procedure, the Reprimand should be changed to a

«w.

Letter of Concern.

30. Respondent's general exceptions to the Hearing Officer’s
Appeﬁdix,‘without detailing a basis for the exception, is rejected
as redundant because those exceptions have been addressed by the

specific exceptions presented above.

FINDINGS 02 PAC:

1. The Hearing Officer's Recommended Findings of Fact are
’approved and adopted except as amended above, and are incorporated
herein by reference as the Findings of Feet of the Board in this

cause .

2. There is competent, substantial evidence to support the

Board's findings herein.

QQESLH§19E§_QE_LAK'
l. The Board has jurisdiction over the parties and subject

matter of this case pursuant to Section 120.57 and chapter 458,

Florida'Statutes.

2. ”The findings of fact set forth above establish that
Respondent has violated Sections 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes,

as charged in the Administrative Complaint.

