FILED

Department of Professscnal Regulation
AGENLIY CLERK

6’
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONwﬂ" 98251)ng

BOARD OF MEDICI

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL ﬂ '
REGULATION, DATE

Petitioner,

 

 

DPR CASE NUMBERS: 0079194,
0063999,

0081388,

0081390,

0081391,

8901767,

8905399,

9000576

—vs- _ DOAH CASE NUMBERS: 89—5489,
90—2680

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0019670

ELLIOTT F. MONROE, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

 

This cause came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.57(1)(b)10, Florida Statutes, on December
7, 1991, in Miami, Florida, for the purpose of considering the
Hearing Officer's Recommended Order (a copy of which is attached
hereto as Exhibit A) in the above—styled cause. Petitioner,
Department of Professional Regulation, was represented by Larry
G. McPherson, Jr., Attorney at Law. Respondent was duly notified
of the hearing and was not present.

Upon review of the Recommended Order, the argument of the
parties, and after a review of the complete record in this case,
the Board makes the following findings and conclusions.

FINDINGS OF FACT

1. Findings of fact set forth in the Recommended Order are

approved and adopted and incorporated herein.

2. There is competent substantial evidence to support the

findings of fact.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. The Board has jurisdiction of this matter pursuant to

Section 120.57(1), Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida

Statutes.

2. The Board rejects the Hearing Officer's conclusion of
law and analysis regarding Count V, an alleged violation of
Section 458.331(1)(q), which is set forth in the last two lines
on page 41 of the Recommended Order continuing through to the end
of that full paragraph on page 42. In lieu thereof, the Board

substitutes the following conclusion of law:

The full language of Section 458.331(1)(q), Florida

Statutes, is as follows:

Prescribing, dispensing, administering,
mixing, or otherwise preparing a legend

drug, including any controlled substance,
other than in the course of the physician's
professional practice. For the purposes of
this paragraph, it shall be legally presumed
that prescribing, dispensing, administering,
mixing, or otherwise preparing legend drugs,
including all controlled substances, inapprop—
riately or in excessive or inappropriate
quantities is not in the best interest of the
patient and is not in the course of the
physician's professional practice, without
regard to his intent.

Thus, the statute itself provides that if the prescription is
inappropriate, it is a violation of the statute as not being in
the course of the physician's professional practice. The

prescriptions at issue in this case were inappropriate because,

as found by the Hearing Officer at Paragraph 7 of the Findings of

hearing. That hearing concerned the case of.DeDartment of

Professional RegulationI Board of Medical Examiners v. Elliott F.

Monroe. M.D., DPR Case No. 0099289.

3. The Respondent gave certain sworn testimony in
that informal proceeding. In response to questions by various
Board members, the Respondent stated that he was not working as a
doctor in Florida, but planned to return to work on approximately
June 14, 1989. He indicated, in his testimony, that he was going
to practice in Apalachicola, Florida, starting on June 15, 1989.
In response to a question by Dr. Skinner of the Board, concerning
whether he had practiced in Florida sihce disciplinary action was '
Itaken against his Texas licensure, the Respondent replied that he
had covered an emergency room one day in Apalachicola around the
first of March; but that was the only practice he had done in
Florida so far, meaning since he had returned to Florida from
Texas. At the hearing in the instant proceeding, however, the
Respondent testified that at the time he gave that testimony
concerning working one day in Apalachicola, he was confused and
under a great deal of pressure in that prior legal proceeding
concerning the future of his licensure and was unrepresented by
counsel at the time. Accordingly, he stated that he had
inadvertently answered incorrectly, although he had not intended
to deceive the Board. The Respondent was allowed to recent the
prior answer given in the informal proceeding by stating on the
record in the instant proceeding as follows: "I covered an

emergency room several days in Apalachicola in March, April and

May." In the course of the Respondent’s testimony in the instant

ooooxzs

.duubs A.

proceeding concerning recantation of his earlier statement, he

acknowledged upon questioning by the Petitioner’s counsel that at

the time in question, in March, April and May of 1989, he was

seeing and treating patients in Florida. Indeed, prior to the

informal proceeding, on April 10, 1989, th

working in the emergency room of Weems Memorial Hospital in

Apalachicola, Florida, two days a week and was specifically

working there on March 20, 1989.
4. The Respondent had been employed at the Weems

Memorial Hospital in Apalachicola, Florida, since agptoximateiy_-

March 3, 1989 through June 19, 1989. He carried out emergency

room and clinical duties at the hospital, including diagnosing

and treating patients. His duties also included requesting and

reading x-rays, laboratory studies and prescribing and admitting

patients to the hospital.

5. The Respondent signed prescriptions and prescribed

medications on March 3, 6 and 20, 1989 on AKBAR Clinic

prescription pads. The prescription for patient no. 2 on March

20, 1989 indicates that that patient was seen at the AKBAR

Clinic. The Respondent, as to patient no. 2, seem cn March 20,

1989, struck the name of Dr. Elkadi and substituted hi

on the prescription, but left intact the AKBAR Clinic letterhead

and address on the prescription. The prescriptions bear a

Respondent acknowledged to Investigator Wheelahan that the

signatures on the prescriptions of March 3, 6 and 20, 1989 were

0000139

I

his signatures, as-testified to by Mr. Wheelahan, without
objection. '

6. In Respondent’s application for employment at
Weems Memorial Hospital dated February 16, 1989, he listed his
office address as 4000 E. Third Street, Panama City, Florida

32404. He indicated on that application that he was practicing

as a physician with Dr. Ahmed Elkadi. The address given on that
application for employment is that of the AKBAR Clinic.

7. The Respondent held no valid drug enforcement
administration (DEA) registration necessary to prescribe and _
dispense controlled substances for the period from January 29,;_4
1989 to March 23, 1989. His registration had expired
inadvertently due to the Respondent being hospitalized for severe

medical problems during January and February of 1989, culminating,
in cardiac surgery. During the period of his expired
registration, he prescribed valium, a schedule IV controlled
substance, morphine sulfate and cocaine hydrochloride, schedule
II controlled substances. The Respondent had reasoh to know the:
his registration was in a lapsed status when he wrote the
prescriptions in March ef 1989 although he had not renewed his
registration for the extenuating circumstances relating to his

medical disability. He renewed his DEA registration on March 23,

1989.

8. On June 2, 1989, he was present at the Board of

Medicine informal hearing referenced above. He was informed by

the Board at that time that his license to practice medicine in

Florida would be suspended until all disciplinary action had bee:

000£blh

completed in Texas. On June 19,

the Acting Administrator of Weems Memorial Hcspital, of

the entry of the Board of Medicine’s Order of June 15, 1989

suspending his license to practice in Florida. Advertisements

announcing that the Respondent was practicing medicine in

Apalachicola, Florida, appeared in the Carrabelle-Apalachicola

Times on June 15, 22 and 29, 1989. These advertisements,

however, were ordered or subscribed prior to the Board’s

suspension of his licensure. There is no evidence to show that

he actually practiced medicine after his suspension, even though

w days thereaftef, .

Counts I and II: Patient No. 1
9. The Respondent provided medical care and treatment

) from approximately October 11, 1980

for patient no. 1 (S.C.

She was admitted to the hospital

through October 18, 1980.

during that time period, and he was her attending physician.

10. The Respondent diagnosed her condition as

involving an "abdominal mass“. Ultimately, an operation was

planned for this patient, involving a total abdominal

hysterectomy (TAH) and a bilateral salpingo-oophorectcmy (BS&O).

recedures involved removal of the uterus, both fallopian

1980, the Respondent

These p

tubes, and both ovaries. On October 12,

obtained from this patient her informed consent to yerform the

TAH and the BS&O. The Respondent did not obtain any consent from

the patient to perform a D&C. When the Respondent actually

a D&C, as well as

performed surgery on this patient, he performed

1

n-nnzr-l

a TAH. The Reshondent, however, failed to perform a BS&O upon

the patient, thus leaving the ovaries and fallopian tubes intact.

There is no information in the medical records to indicate
whether the Respondent ever informed the patient that the BS&O
procedure was not performed nor that he informed her that the 08C

procedure was performed. There is no indication in the medical

records that the pathology report was ever discussed with the
patient nor was it proven that it was not.

11. The Respondent did not document any symptoms
associated with the abdominal mass which he diagnosed. He did -
not document any complaints by the patient or any reference to an:
abdominal scar on his physical examination, although the patient
had had an earlier appendectomy. Before the surgery was
performed, the Respondent did not document in the medical record
any justification for his plan to do the Bsao, to which the
patient had consented, nor did he document any reason for his
abandonment of that procedure during surgery or for his
performing of the D&C procedure, to which the patient had not

consented.

12. The patient was under the Respondent’s care until
approximately October 18, 1980, when she was discharged.
Thereafter, on or about June 19, 1985 until June 25, 1985,
patient no. 1 was hospitalized under the care of another
physician, Dr. Theodore Elchos. This hospitalization was for
treatment of a pelvic mass. On or about June 21, 1985, Dr.
Elchos performed an exploratory laparotomy upon patient no. 1.

This procedure resulted in the removal of the left ovary, right

ovary, and the right fallopian tube. The patient’s ovaries were
biopsied} and the resulting pathology report conce:.ihg the
ovaries revealed papillary serous cystadenocarcihoma, grade IV,
motastic. This was a cancerous condition which eventually

resulted in the patient’s death.

13. The Respondent, for unknown reasons, failed to
perform the BS&O procedure on patient no. 1. Had he -erformed
the BS&O procedure, the patient’s fallopian tubes and ovaries
would have been removed thereby, such that the cancer and her
death would likely have been prevented. t was not establisheﬁ,
however, that the Respondent knew or should have known that the
organs were or might become cancerous at the time in 1980 wheh he
performed the TAH and the D&C procedures and failed to perform
the planned BS&O procedure. It was likewise not established that
the ovaries and fallopian tubes should have been removed at the-
time and that the doctor was negligent or departed from the ‘
appropriate standard of care in failing to remove them. It was
proven that he had obtained the patient’s consent to remove them
through the BS&O procedure, failed to perform the procedure, and
failed to document why he initially felt that t.e procedure was
required. Wheh the procedure was not performed, he failed to
document in the records why it was not performed and other
information concerning the actual condition of the patient’s
ovaries and fallopian tubes which might have shown a basis for
any decision regarding their retention or removal at the time of

the 1980 surgery.

0000:713

14. Thus, in the above particulars, it was shown bv
the testimony and the deposition of Dr. Lewis, in evidence as

Petitioner’s Exhibit 26, that the Respondent fa iled to practice

medicine with that level of care, skill and treatment which a
reasonably prudent similar physician recognizes as acceptable
under similar conditions and circumstances, although it was not

proven by clear and convincing evidence that the failure to

become cancerous at a later time. Performance of the D&C'
procedure was done without the patient’s consent, therefore, that
also was a departure from accepted standards of medical care,
skill and treatment recognized by reasonably prudent similar
physicians under similar conditions and circumstahces.
Counts IIIE IV and V: Patient No. 2

15. The Respondent provided medical care and
treatment for patient no. 2 by being the attending p1 ysician for
her hospital admission from June 4, 1983 through June 6, 1983.
On or about June 4, 1983, the patient was admitted to the
hospital in active labor. She was 6 to 7 centimeters dilated,
and the Respondent was so notified by hospital personnel. When
the Respondent arrived to see the patient, the patient was moved
to the delivery room. She was by then 9 centimeters dilated with
"bulging membranes, vertex presentation, 0 station". The

Respondent initiated an epidural anesthesia on the patient in

preparation for a vaginal delivery. This was the patient's third

pregnancy. She had had short labors in her prior pregnancies,
and all were vaginal deliveries. The Respondent noted in he:
medical records that her pelvis was adequate for delivery. E=*

weight at the time was approximately 110 pounds.

16. Epidural anesthesia involves the insertion of a

local anesthetic substance into the epidural space of the spinal

column directly through an injection needle or through an

inserted catheter. The Respondent in the instant case inserted
an epidural catheter and through the catheter administered 12
milliliters of 0.75% condentration marcaine in diVided doses cf 3
milliliters each. ‘

l7. Marcaine is a trade name for bupivacaine. It"is
a legend drug used for a local or regional anesthesia. Marcaine
is very cardio-toxic in comparison to other local anesthetic
agents. In obstetrical cases, it is employed in a very dilute
solution. Vaginal deliveries accompanied by an episiotomy
surgical procedure are typified by use of a 0.25% concentraticn
solution of marcaine. Cesarean sections typically are performed
with the use of a 0.50% solution or a combination of 0.25% and
0.50% can satisfactorily be used.

18. .The physician’s desk reference (FDR) is a
reference work commonly relied upon by obstetrical physicians.
In 1983, the PDR provided that a 0.75% marcaine solution was
appropriate, but an upper limit of concentration, for obstetrical
use and primarily intended for cesarean section use. Likewise,

12 milliliters dosage of marcaine is at the upper limit, but

within general guidelines for dosage in the PDR: however, it must

15

HAHAIl-l

carefully be given in divided dosage for the safety of the

patient to avoid cardio-toxic effects.

19. The persistent cardio—toxic or c=v“ac arresting

h... u.—

effects of.marcaine result from its interaction "i-h the "sodium

Fl..u..

channels” related to the heart’s operative nervous system.

Because of this reaction relationship, the eff ct ‘ marcaine in

causing heart rhythm problems and, indeed, cardiac arrests is
hard to reverse with resuscitative efforts. Consequently, it can
be quite hazardous if not properly administered.

20. An overdose of marcaine can result from the
injection of a high concentration, a large volume, 0: from an
inadVertent intravascular injection which occurs when a blood
vessel, such as a vein, is penetrated inadvertently when the
physician is attempting to inject the marcaine in the epidural
space of the spinal column. Injection via epidural catheter for

delivery of the drug increases the chances of intravenous

it. Indeed, when the syringe is withdrawn to check fc: blood-

thus preventing any bloody show from occurring, even though the
catheter has been mistakenly inserted into a vein. When marcaine
is mistakenly injected into the vascular system, its absorption
is too rapid and can cause serious cardio-toxic effects if other

than the most minimal doses are administered. The dosage

nnnnran

administered for patient no. 2 was not minimal but, rather, was
at the upper limit of acceptable dosages and concentrations. The
toxic properties of marcaine on the cardiac and central nervous

systems were generally known by thsicians in 1983.

- 21. The 12 milliliters bf a 0.75% concentration
dosage was nearly a maximum dosage and was recommended in the PD?
for only abdominal operations, euch as cesarean sections, which
require complete muscle relaxation. The PDR also cautions that
the maximum dosage must be individualized after evaluating the
size and physical status of the patient, as well as the rate of
absorption from a particular injection site. —

22. The Respondent’s medical records do not document
any justification for utilizing such a high dosage and such a
high concentration of this anesthetic for an imminent vaginal
delivery (as opposed to a C-section), including consideration of
the size of_the patient. The Respondent also failed to document
a descriﬁtion of the techniques of his anesthesia or anesthetic
plan for the patient. There are other anesthetic agents which
were generally accepted in such obstetrical procedures at that
time and which do not have the characteristic of exhibiting

persistent cardio-toxic effects if given inadvertently

intravascularly.

23. Subsequent to the final injection of the marcaine
dosage into patient no. 2, the patient had three clonic seizures,
after which she experienced respiratory arrest, followed by

cardiac arrest. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation was performed ugon

the patient for approximately one hour before a regular

nnnnU1

Fact, Respondent prescribed a controlled substance during a

period of time during which he held no valid DEA registration
necessary to prescribe and dispense a controlled substance and

"Respondent had reason to know that his registration was in a

lapsed status.

3. The remaining conclusions of law set forth in the

Recommended Order are approved and adopted and incorporated

herein.

4. There is competent substantial evidence to support the
conclusions of law.
ELEM
Upon a complete review of the record in this case, the Board
determines that the penalty recommended by the Hearing Officer be

APPROVED and ADOPTED. WHEREFORE,
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that

Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State of

Florida is REVOKED.‘

This order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department of Professional Regulation.

k,—
DONE AND ORDERED this {q day Of Q&awﬁ , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDI E

   
    
  

W

ZACHARIAH P. ZACHARIAH, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

spontaneous peripheral pulse was obtained. Approximately 30

minutes after resuscitation efforts were begun, the Respondent

delivered the patient of a live male infant using outlet forceps.

Following delivery, patient no. 2 was transferred to the medical

intensive care unit. On or about June 5, 1983, the Respondent

ordered a neurological evaluation of the patient which revealed

probable cerebral hypoxic damage with evidence of only brain-stem
function. On or about June 6, 1983, the patient had another
cardiac arrest which resulted in the Respondent pronouncing her

dead.

24. The patient was a small person of approximately;_1
110 pounds weight. There was no indication of any untoward
obstetrical problem and the patient presented with all
indications of ah imminent, normal vaginal delivery being
appropriate. Under these and the other circumstances delineated
above, admtnistration of 12 milliliters of 0.75% marcaine via
epidural catheter as an anesthetic agent for a imminent vaginal
delivery constituted the administration of a legend drug
inappropriately or in excessive or inappropriate quantities not
in the best interests of the patient. Further, the unrefuted
expert testimony of Dr. Cross reveals that an obstetrician who
administers anesthesia himself to his own patient in a hospital
setting is held to the same standard of care and practice as an
anesthesiologist.

25. The Respondent thus failed to practice medicine
within the level of care, skill and treatment which a reasonably

prudent similar physician under the same or similar circumstances

and Conditions would recognize as acceptable by utilizing the

highly concentrated anesthetic agent for vaginal delivery when

such a concentration was usually reserved for use in cesarean

sections, and the same consideration is true of the dosage volume

of 12 milliliters, which was used. This is especially true under
the circumstance that the Respondent chose to administer the drug

by epidural catheter, which greatly and unnecessarily increased
the chances of the drug being mistakenly and dangerously given
intravenously. Although it was not directly proven that the drug
was administered directly into a vein, that inference is made
under the circumstances delineated in the above findings beset 1
upon the unrefuted testimdny of Dr. Cross and the fact that the
patient immediately suffered three seizures and ultimately death,
which is found to have been the direct result of the substandard_

manner and means of administration of the drug.

Counts VIl VII and VIII: Patient No. 3

26. From December 2, 1982 until December 16, 1982,
the Respondent provided medical care and treatment for patient
no. 3 by being the attending physician related to her hospital
admission during that time. On or about December 2, 1982, the
patient arrived at the hospital with an elevated blood pressure
(140/100), with intact membranes. She believed that her labor
had started the evening before. The patient stated to the
Respondent that she had recently moved to the area and gave the

:15 V

name and location of her previous treating physician, Dr. Hage .‘

I
of Lake Ozark, Missouri. She stated that her childﬁdelivery date

was believed to be December 17, 1982.

27. .The Respondent did not obtain and document an
adequate or complete history or physical for the patient within
24 hours of her admission for delivery of her baby. The
Respondent did not document historical facts con erhing the
patient, such as her past and present medications, general
health, family history of diseases, drug intake, past illnesses,

including hospitalizations,_past surgeries, history of cardiac
disease, hypertension or smoking, date of last menses, previous

prenatal care, if any, and any estimated due date ascertained

from previous prenatal care. The Respondent did not document any

review of her bodily systems, record any chief complaints or any:
other noted problems, and failed to obtain either the patient’s

records from the previous treating physician in Missouri or, due

to the apparent imminence of delivery, at least contact the

physician for an oral report of her prior problems, care or

estimated due date and record information obtained from such

contact.

28. The only history and physical note in the medical

nine

records written by the Respondent was for December 11, 1982,
days after admission. An admission history and ghysical should
be done on all patients admitted to the hospital within 24 hours.

This is done to indicate that the physician has reviewed the

patient’s history, physical status, and has given his impression

of the patient’s problems and that he has formulated a treatment

plan. This also serves to inform other treating personnel of the

patient’s status at the time of admission and of the treating

physician’s treatment decisions regarding the patient to that

29. An x-ray taken upon the patient’s admission on

December 2, 1982 revealed a cephalic presentation of the tab y.
The radiologist, Dr. Alfred, estimated that the baby was six or

seven months in gestation judging from the size. A sonogram was

taken on December 3, 1982. The radiologist, Dr. Harbison,

estimated gestation of 32. 7 weeks based upon bi pa arietal diameter

measurements taken by sonogram. The presentation was "vertex"
and the placenta was "funéal". The reliance on x—ray and
sonogram reports of this nature for a determination of fetal age
can be inaccurate unless femur length and/or abdominal
measurements are made. Head measurements alone do not

necessarily accurately establish fetal a-e because the head might,
GIPnnmnuL

- perpaveld diameter. Further,

 

not be visible enough to determi
fetal growth retardation may have occurred but with a "head
sparing" effect, that is, the head may be more normally sized
than the rest of the fetal body, thus giving rise to an
inaccurate prediction of gestation age based solel y upon head
measurement in a patient who presents with pregnanoy-induced
hypertension (PIH). This patient had pregnancy-induced
hypertension when she was admitted.

30. The Respondent made no other efforts to verify
the maturation of the baby or the duration of t.e pregnancy, but
accepted the 32-week estimate of fetal age. The Respondent
should have measured the fundal height. The Respondent also
should have obtained an additional ultrasound study and report

with more interpretative information in accordance with the above

findings. On or about December 3, 1982, the Respondent diagnosed

the patient to haVe PIH.

31. ,PIH is a serious pregnancy complication
associated with increased blood pressure in the mother and less

of protein in the urine, as well as potential liver and kidney
function prdblems. The fetus is at risk under this circumstance
because of poor blood flow and thus poor nutrition and

oxygenation through the placental barrier. Fetal growth may thus

be retarded and additional problems for the fetus can result.
With PIH in a patient, there is an increased incidence of
abruptio placenta, or separation of the placenta. PIH can

progress to preeclampsia and eclampsia. _

32. The treatment for PIH or preeclampsie hinges Ct»:
the maturation of the fetus. If the baby is sufficiently mature,
the treatment of choice is immediate delivery before the disease
can worsen and ceuse adverse effects on the mother or the baby.
If the fetus is definitely premature, the mother should be
transferred to a referral hospital where appropriate intensive
care-type heonatal facilities and personnel are available to
properly care for such a complicated status, premathre infant.
There is no indication in the Respondent’s medical records that
he considered or attemﬁted transfer of the high-risk patient t:
any other appropriate facility. Indeed, he may have considered
it: and, indeed, it may have been impossible to accomplish under
the circumstances: but no such circumstances are documented in
the Respondent's records.

33. On or about December 3, 1982, the Respondent

prescribed lasix and aldomet for the patient’s PIE. Lasix is a

legend drug and a potent diuretic. Its Use for this patient was

inappropriate, as a diuretic can worsen the decreased
intravascular volume of blood attendant to PIE and can thus lead

to further impairment of the placental blood flow to the infant.

This can lead to electrolyte imbalances in the mother and the

fetus. Electrolyte studies Were ordered by the Respondent but
only for one day, December 8, 1982. Repeated studies should have

been ordered in order to adequately monitor the condition of
mother and fetus. Aldomet is also a legend drug and a
hypertensive treatment agent. By lowering the blood pressure
with this drug for the mother, nutrients and oxygen to the baby
may be impaired by the attendant decreased blood flow throughithe

placental barrier.

34. On or about December 5, 1982, patient no. 3
experienced vaginal bleeding and uterine contractions for which
the Respondent ordered the patient typed and cross-natched for
four units of packed red blood cells. The Respondent also
ordered the administration of intravenous yutopar to stop the
patient’s uterine activity. The patient was placed on an
external fetal monitor. Yutopar is a drug used to stop premature
labor. The continued use of yutopar at this time for the patient
was contraindicated because the patient’s bleeding, which could
have been the result of an abruptio placenta (separating
placenta) and which could be potentially fatal to the fetus was
not assessed. 'The fetal monitor tracings at this time indicated
that the baby was in continual difficulty. The treatment of
choice at this time would have been to terminate the pregnancy by

immediate delivery or to transfer the patient to an appropriate

higher level of care, obstetrical specialty facility.

--__. n'-

_35.’ The Respondent’s records did not indicate that he

monitored the patient’s hemoglobin during or fcllowing her'
bleeding episode, that he ordered clotting parameters, that he
ordered another ultrasound test to check for evidence of

placental separation, that he checked the baby’s maturity by

amniocentesis, that he tested for placental cells in the vaginal

discharge or that he followed the mother’s white blood cell
count. The Respondent neglected to treat the patient with
magnesium sulfate which is indicated to prevent seizures when the
blood pressure was elevated as was the patient’s. He only
administered this drug on one occasion, on December 10, 1982, and
then discontinued it for reasons'not reflected in the record.
The Respondent also failed to order non-stress tests or
contractien stress tests to monitor the fetal condition. During
this time, however, the external fetal monitor tracings showed
generalized decreased variability in fetal heart rate with
frequent late decelerations and many prolonged decelerations
which indicate obvious fetal distress. The Respcndent failed to
document any assessment of these fetal monit r tracings, although
concern was charted by'a nurse, and the Respondent was informed.
36. The Respondent did not order kidney or liver
function tests cn patient no. 3 until four days after delivery,
although liver and kidney function problems are known to be
frequently associated with PIH: and the patient had experienced a

very low output of urine on December 6, 1982. No urinalysis was

ordered at all.

37h On December 5, 1982,.the medical records note a
gross swelling of the patient's vulva. On that date, the

Respondent prescribed a corticosteroid cream as treatment for
that condition. The condition persisted until delivery. The
Respondent did not note in his records an assessment and

diagnosis of the medical reason for the swelling for which he

prescribed that treatment. On December 5, 1982, he initiated
treatment of the patient hith celestone (belamethascne), which
was continued for five days. This drug is designed to mature the
baby’s lungs. The maximum effect of this drug is achieved over a
two-day span; and since the patient’s preeclampsia was persistith
with blood pressure rising during this time to 184/140, it wod1d 7
have been appropriate to deliver the baby after a maximum of two

'days of administration of this drug for purposes of maturing the

baby’s lungs, in order to lessen the risk of delayed delivery to

the baby.
38. On December 10, 1982, the Respondent prescribed a

pitocin infusion for the patient, which was started at or about
11:15 p.m. Then, on or about December 11, 1982, at about 7:13
a.m., the Respondent ruptured the patient’s amniotic membrane
which revealed a “brown/red amniotic fluid". The Respondent then
applied an internal fetal monitor electrode to the presenting
part of the infant at this time. On December 11, 1982, at about
8:30 a.m., he initiated an epidural anesthesia for patient no. 3.
The exact procedure, time and amount of anesthesia was not
documented in his records, however. The Respondent did document

in the operative record that the patient had a "saddleblock" as

an aneethesia for the cesarean section; howeVer, the anesthesia
record, the delivery record, the labor record, and the obstetric
recovery room record documented that an epidural anesthesia was
administered} which the Respondent initiated and then re-dosed
prior to the surgery. On December 11, 1982, at about 11:32 a.m.,
the Respondent performed a cesarean section upon the patient; and

about 11:36 a.m., delivered.a viable, five-pound, female infant.

39. The medical records reveal that following

delivery, the Respondent intubated the infant on two or three
occasions and aspirated the glottis. The infant was then A
ventilated by ambu bag and was transported to the nursery; Some 2
five hours later, the infant was transferred to Sacred Heart
Hospital in Pensacola, Florida, by ambulance, which is a neonatal
intensive care emit. The Respondent failed to document either

the initial assessment of the infant’s condition or his

resuscitation efforts at delivery.

40. The Respondent failed to adequately treat the
patient during the surgery and delivery in that he failed to have
another physician present at the delivery to care for the infant
and failed to have a physician assist with the patient’s surgery
to prevent abandonment of the surgical patient should the

infant's resuscitation require a physician’s assistance.

41. Upon performing the cesarean section, the
Respondent diagnosed a "50% abruption of the placenta, probably
existing since December 5th". The Respondent documented in the
discharge summary that "all laboratory data during the hospital

admission was within normal limits", however, the only SMAC

profile done on December 15, 1982 noted numerous abnormal values.
See Dr. Brauner's unrefuted testimony at pages 410-413 of the

transcript. It was later determined that the infant suffered

seizures and severe mental retardation.
42. The Respondent thus-failed to obtain an adequate
or complete history for patient no. 3, failed to perform an

adequate physical examination to adequately assess or monitor the
PIH, to adequately treat the PIH, failed to order appropriate
diagnostic studies to accurately determine fetal status before

deciding to initiate a therapy involving prolonging the
pregnancy, and failed to adequately assess the patient’s ‘
laboratory test results. When there was evidence that the bah?
was not doing well, as shown by the fetal monitor tracings, he
failed to immediately deliver the pregnancy. Additionally, the
Respondent prescribed and administered mixed or dispensed legené
drugs inapgropriately or in excessive or inappropriate
quantities, which were not in the best interest of the patient by
prescribing aldomet for the patient, which could decrease
placental perfusion. He prescribed lasix for the patient, which
also decreased placental blood flow and would create electrolyte
imbalances in both the mother and the baby. He prescribed
yutopar to prolong the high-risk pregnancy when fetal monitor

tracings showed that the baby was in a distressed conditicn. He

prescribed a corticosteriod cream for the patient as a treatment

for a condition which he had neither assessed nor diagnosed at

the point of prescribing that drug or after. He thus failed to

practice medicine with regard to this patient with the level of

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO JUDICIAL REVIEW

A PARTY WHO IS ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THIS FINAL ORDER IS ENTITLED
TO JUDICIAL REVIEW PURSUANT TO SECTION 120.68, FLORIDA STATUTES.
REVIEW PROCEEDINGS ARE GOVERNED BY THE FLORIDA RULES OF APPELLATE
PROCEDURE. SUCH PROCEEDINGS ARE COMMENCED BY FILING ONE COPY OF
A NOTICE OF APPEAL WITH THE AGENCY CLERK OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION AND A SECOND COPY, ACCOMPANIED BY FILING
FEES PRESCRIBED BY LAW, WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL, FIRST

DISTRICT, OR WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL IN THE APPELLATE
DISTRICT WHERE THE PARTY RESIDES. THE NOTICE OF APPEAL MUST BE
FILED WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF RENDITION OF THE ORDER TO BE

REVIEWED.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Elliott F.
Monroe, M.D., 2709 Arden Drive, Panama City, Florida 32401, by
U.S. Mail to P. Michael Ruff, Hearing Officer, Division of
Administrative Hearings, The DeSoto Building, 1230 Apalachee
Parkway, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-1550; and by interoffice
delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney,
Department of Professional Regulation, 1940 North Monroe Street,

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792 at or before 5:00 P.M., this

§Cj%yﬁday of\[2égéz:éﬁ :::., 1991

DecOrders/Monroe

care, skill and treatment which reasonably prudent similar

physicians recognize as acceptable under the conditions and

circumstances delineated above.
43. The Respondent failed to keep written medical
records justifying the course of treatment of the patient. He

failed to document an adequate or complete history; to document

an explanation concerning his acceptance of the estimated
gestational age of the fetus; any justification for the course of
treatment of the PIH; any justification for failure to order
appropriate diagnostic studies to determine fetal status ptio: to
initiating therapy to prolong the pregnancy. His records contain-
no justification for prolonging the pregnancy: any assessment of
the fetal monitor tracings obtained from the patient: and no
assessment and éiagnosis of the swelling of the patient’s vulva,
which he treated. His records are silent as to any reasons for
not transferring the high-risk patient to another more
appropriate facility. There is no documented justification for
indicating in the record that the patient had a "saédleblock"
anesthesia when other medical records reveal that the patient had
an epidural anesthesia; He did not document his reasons for
stating in the discharge summary that the patient's laboratory
test results were all within normal limits nor either an initial

assessment of the infant’s condition or his resuscitation efforts

upon delivery.

Counts IXI X and XI: Patient No. 4

44. Patient no. 4 was a Zleyear old woman

experiencing her second pregnancy. On October 8, 1980, she was

admitted to the hospital in labor with a term pregnancy. The
Respondent was her attending physician and had provided medical
care and treatment for her from June 21, 1980 to October 18,
1980. qun her admission, the Respondent failed to obtain and
document an adequate or complete history by failing to document
historical facts concerning the patient, such as her past and

present medications, general health, family history of diseases,
drug intake, history of eardiac disease, hypertensicn or smoking,
history regarding her first labor and pregnancy, and the
patient’s interest regarding sterilization. Upon her admission
on October 8, 1980, the Respondent failed to perform and docdbent'
an adequate physical examination on the patient by failing to"
perform a review of the patient’s bodily systems, by failing to

perform a breast examination, by failing to document an

assessment of the patient's vital signs, even though the blood
pressure was significantly higher than her prenatal base line, by
failing to describe the surgical scar on the patient’s abdomen
from a prior cesarean section, by failing to assess her reflexes,
and by failing to document the presenting part of the infant, the
station and degree of effacement of the cervix. If, indeed, the
Respondent performed these aspects of a.physical examination,

they were not documented in the patient’s and the Respondent’s

records.

45. On October 8, 1980, at approximately 4:15 p.m.,

the patient was noted by the nurses progress notes to be 4

centimeters dilated. The Respondent prescribed 10 milligrams of

valium, and the patient received that by injection at

.Y.1."t" .. -.".: ' - .-

;'. mad“. 1..

n“.

'4‘. 5:»! :4-2

approximately 5:20 p.m. en that date. At about 5:25 p.m., the

patient was completely dilated and "bulging". The medical

record, however, does not document the presence or absence of a

"bloody shew" nor the station of the presenting part of the

infant. The patient, however, appeared to be progressing rapidly

and able to deliver vaginally. The noted pelvic measurements of

the patient were all normal, indicating an adequate gelvis size;

however, the Respondent circled "inadequate" on her prenatal care
sheet. The reason noted on the prenatal care sheet for the

patient for the prior cesarean section was "prolonged labor". w
The Respondent failed to adequately assess, diagnose, and treat} :-
the patient’s condition by failing to attempt a vaginal delivery
when the patient was completely dilated and progressing rapidly.

The Respondent did not document any justification for his failure
to attempt to deliwer'the patient vaginally.

461 On October 8, 1980, at approximately 5:30 p.m.,
the Responﬁent obtained a signed consent from patient no. 4’s
mother to perform a sterilization on the patient during a
cesarean section. The Respondent did not obtain an informed
consent from patient ne. 4 herself to perform a sterilization
procedure. At about 5:45 p.m, he initiated an epidural
anesthesia on patient no. 4 and at 6:16 p.m., delivered a female
infant via cesarean section. The attending anesthesiclogist, Dr.
Weigle, documented in the medical record pertaining to this
patient that the Respondent “ligated this patient’s fallopian
tubes knowing full well there was no op permit for tubal

ligation". The Respondent then overwrote his denial of Dr.

Weigle’s entry and noted that he showed the tube to all in the

operating room. See Petitioner’s Exhibit 13 in evidence.
47. The Respondent then documented in the operatien

report that the cesarean section was accomplished without
complications with only 100 milliliters of blood lost and t.at
hemostasis was excellent. He documented in the discharge suzzarv

of October 21, 1980, however, that "a C-section was done with
more than usual bleeding”. At 7:00 p.m. on October 8, 1980, the
patient was transferred from the operating room to the recovery

room in satisfactory condition. At or about 7:05 p.m., however,

and passing large blood clots from her vagina. The Responﬁent

documented in the record that the patient "became dry" and was

observed in the recovery room for more than two hours, at which
time she had a gush of blood from her vagina.

48. On October 8, 1980, at 7:30 p.m., the Respondent
treated the bleeding condition by inserting vaginal packing and
ordering blood transfusions. At 8:50 p.m., the patient received
two units of packed red blood cells. He: blood pressure at that
time was 60/40, with her pulse recorded as 120. She was
transferred to the operating room where the Respondent placed a
kerlix hack in the uterus and the vagina. The patient received
two units of blood. At about 9:30 p.m., she was transferred to
the recovery room where she received two units of blood. The

patient continued to bleed, however, which necessitated her

transfer back to the operating room at 10:00 p.m.

49. The Respondent then proceeded to perform a
laparotomy upon the patient at approximately 10:00 p.n. on
October 8, 1980. The abdomen was found to be full of blood, and

the Respondent diagnosed the source of the bleeding as a
lacerated cervix. The Respondent stated in his operative report
that "it became obvious from her labor that she had

circumferentially ruptured her uterus with a posterior tear down
to the vagina" and "...the bleeding was from the vagixal mucosa
posterior to the cervix” (discharge summary). In the operative
report, the Respondent stated "the cervix has been congletely 7
lacerated in a circumferential manner because this patient was
allowed to stay in labor while we were waiting for anesthesia“.
In a letter of February 14, 1987 to the Department of
Professional Regulation, in evidence as the Petitioner’s Exhibit
19, the Respondent states: "Gulf Coast Hospital operating room
personnel weuid not open axsecond operating room as it was after
hours and the only vacant operating room was in use; therefore,
she was allowed to labor. In the process, the patient lacerated
her vagina by dilating her cervix to complete at a minus station
prior to the time of surgery."

50. Aside from these notations by the Respondent,
there is no indication in the tecords which would indicate that
the patient had ruptured these structures during her labor.
There is testimony at pages 549-554 of the transcript indicating
a probability that the laceration occurred when the Respondent

had to retrieve the infant’s head from its deep engagement in the

pelvis at the time of the cesarean section. There is, however,

Respondent actually caused the laceration of the cervix nor, on

the other hand, that the laceration was caused by the patiezt

.A I—

being allowed to stay in labor too long while th

{0

Respondent was

waiting for an anesthesiologist to assist him.

51. It was so established, howevev that the

-r

Respondent failed to adequately assess, diagnose, and treat the
lacerated cervix by failing to recognize its condition and repair
it when he repaired the uterine incision during the initial
cesarean section procedure. This ultimately resulted in
significant risk to the patient caused by substantial blood lees-
and attendant significantly lowered hlood pressure. These '
circumstances resulted in the patient having to receive 14 units
of blood and 6 units of cryoprecipitate and a second surgical
procedure to make the repair, which had been missed during the
first procedure.

52. The Respondent did not adequately treat the

patient during her post-operetive recovery period by continuing

respiratory tract and lungs. Additionally, the Resgondent failed
to order renal function studies for the patient while treating
her with garamycin, an antibiotic which has the potential of
causing kidney damage. Additionally, he changed the route of the
antibiotic administration from intramuscular administration to
the less-effective oral administration route, although the

patient remained febrile. On October 17, 1980, he failed to

perform and document an adequate physical examination upon the

patient by failing to perform a review of the bodily systems, h"

~ '

failing to petform a breast examination, and by failing to

document an assessment of the patient’s laboratory tests even

though the patient had suffered a massive bleeding experience.

On December 2, 1980, the Respondent did not adecuatelv document =

- ‘-

physical examination upon the patient because his documentation
represents only a "standard physical examination" and does not
document any assessment of the patient’s abdominal scarring eve:
though she was to undergo surgical repair of severe scarring
incurred by a prior cesarean section.

53. Thus, as to patient no. 4, the Respondent failed
to obtain an adequate or complete history, failed to perform an
adequate physical examination on October 8, 1980, fa led to
adequately assess, diagnose and treat the patient by failing to
attempt a vaginal delivery when she was completely dilated and
progressing rapidly, by failing to obtain informed consent from
the patient for sterilization prior to the cesarean section, by
failing to adequately assess, diagnose and treat the patient’s
lacerated cervix, and by failing to adequately treat the patient
during her post-operative recovery period.

54. Additionally, the Respondent failed to keep
written medical records which justified the course of treatment
of the patient by failing to document an adequate or complete
history, an adequate or complete physical examination on either

October 8, 1980 or October 17, 1980, as well as December 2, 1980.

He failed to document any justification for failure to consider

or attempt vaginal delivery: to document a justification for

continued use of a nasogastric tube after allowing the patient t:
eat normally; to document any justification for failure to order

renal function studies for the patient while treating her with

the antibiotic which could potentially cause kidney damage‘ to
document any justification for changing the route cf

administration of the antibiotic. Additionally, he documented

the discharge summary statements in a manner which were
contradicted by the medical records of the patient, including the
operative report, and failed to reconcile the contradictory
statements. i
Count XII: Patient No. 5

55. On or about April 27,_1979 through approximately
April 29, ;979, the Respondent provided medical care and
treatment for patient no. 5 by being the attending physician for-
that patient’s hospitalization during that time pericd.

56. The Respondent did not obtain and document an

adequate or complete history of patient no. 5. He did not

and present medications, general health, family history of

[—1
F
N
:1:
rr
'4
0
:1

diseases, drug intake, past illnesses, including hcspita
and surgery, history of cardiac disease, hyperten is: or smoking,
history of pregnancies and date of last menses.

57. The medical records reveal that the ;atient had
an appendectomy at age 10 and ovarian surgery at age 18. The
Respondent did not document the performance of an adequate

physical examination upon the patient nor perform such an

nnﬁnqq

operative report and summary sheet, the Respondent documented
that a bilateral tubal ligation was performed upon the patient
when-he had previOUSly documented conflicting ihfcrmation
concerning this procedure in the operative report (left fallopia:
tube misSing).

60. The Respondent documented that he found an area

of endometriosis during the course of the laparotcny. The

Respondent failed to adequately diagnose the patient by failing

to list endometriosis as a diagnosis.

61. The Respondent failed to adequately assess the
patient by failing to visualize the left fallopian tube_accotﬁihg
to the findings in the operative report and documenting that it 7
was missing and then éccumenting, under the technique portion of
the operative report, that it was cauterized in two places, and
also by failing to describe the area of endometriosis which he
documented finding upon performing the surgery. The Respondent

did not document any justification for his failure to adequately

assess the situation involving the left fallopian tube and which

concerning the procedure allegedly performed on the left
fallopian tube or his contradictory observation th t the left
fallopian tube was missing. The keeping of accurate and complete

medical records is important for adequate future medical care of

a patient.

62. In summary, the Respondent failed to obtain an

adequate or complete history, failed to perform an adequate

physical examination upon the patient, and failed to adequately

assess, diagnose and chart a plan of treatment concerning the
need for a dilation and curettage. He failed to correlate the
dilation and curettage as treatment to the patient’s complaints

or conditieh. He documented an inaccurate operative report,
which contained conflicting information about the surgical

procedure performed upon the left fallopian tube, and failed to

include endometriosis, which was discovered during surgery, as a
diagnosis for the patient. The Respondent did not adequately
document his assessment of the left fallopian tube, and failed to
adequately assess the patient’s area of endometriosis discovered
during surgery.
CQNCEUSIONS OF LAW AS TO CASE NO. 90-2680
The Division of Administrative Hearings has

jurisdiction over the subject matter of and the parties to this

proceeding.

Pursuant to Section 458.331(2), Florida Statutes, the
Board of Medicine is empowered to revoke, suspend or otherwise
discipline the licensure of any physician found guilty of the

acts enumerated in Section 458.331(l), Florida Statutes.

In a disciplinary proceeding such as this, the burden
is on the Petitioner to establish the facts upon which its
allegations of misconduct are based. The Petitioner must prove

those allegations by clear and convincing evidence. Ferris v.

Turlington, 510 So.2d 292 (Fla. 1987).

The "practice of medicine" means diagnosis, treatment,
operation or prescription for any human disease, pain, injury,
deformity, or other physical or mental condition. See Section

458.305(3), Florida Stetutes. _

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION, )
' )
Petitioner, )
)
vs. ) CASE NOS. 89-6489
) 90-2663
ELLIOTT F. MONROE, 14.0., )
)
Respondent. )
)

RECOMMENDED ORDER

Pursuant to notice, this cause came on for formal

proceeding before P. Michael Ruff, duly-designated Hearing

Officer of the Division of Administrative Hearings, in Panama _

City, Florida.

APPEARANCES

 

FOR PETITIONER: Mary B. Radkins, Esq.
Senior Attorney
Department of Professional
Regulation
Northwood Centre, Suite 60
1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, FL 32399-0792

FOR RESPONDENT: Elliott F. Monroe, M.D., Bro se
2709 Arden
Panama City, FL 32401

STATEMENT OF THE ISSUES
The issues in this cause concern whether the

Respondent committed the various charged violations of Section

458.331(1), Florida Statutes (the Medical Practice Act), as

U]

alleged in the two Administrative Complaints at issue and, if a,

what, if any, penalty against licensure is warranted.

000035

The Respondent stated to the Board of Medicine at its
informal disciplinary proceeding on June 2, 1989, as found above,
that he was not currently practicing medicine but expected to
return to work on June 15, 1989; that he had practiced for only
one day in Apalachicola, Florida, at about the first of March in
the emergency room at Weems Memorial Hospital: and th t he had

not seen, talked to, examined, prescribed, or otherwise had
dealings with patients since his return to Florida in 1989,
except for one day in the emergency room. In recanting that
statement to the effect that he only practiced one day in the
hospital emergency room at the instant hearing, the Respondent_:
explained that he was under a great deal of pressure and
inadvertently had stated, in effect, that he practiced only one
day when actually he did, indeed, practice several days each

month between March and June of 1989 in the emergency room at the

Weems Memorial Hospital.

Modiinng terms, such as fraudulent, deceptive or
untrue, concerning "representations in the practice of medicine
for purposes of Section 458.331(l)(k), Florida Statutes, which
prohibits such representations, are terms describing conduct 0:
state of mind involving specitic intent or scienter. Judging
from the circumstances delineated in the above Findings of Fact
concerning the Respondent’s statement about the stress he was
under when he made the statement, concerning the fact that he had
been under medical disability involving a severe heart condition
and surgery, as well as hepatitis, in the first half of 1989, an

inference can be drawn from that earlier testimony, and his

statement recantiné it at the instant hearing, that he really
intended referring to active medical practice rather than limited
work in a hospital emergency room two or three days per month

when he anewered the Board's questions in the negative. It is,

therefore, concluded that, especially since deception, untruth,
or fraud is a specific-intent type of conduct, the evidence of

record produced by the Petitioner does not establish clearly and
convincingly that the Respondent intentionally made deceptive,
untrue, or fraudulent statements to the Board on June 2, 1989,
especially since he had already freely acknowledged his emergehby
room work to two Department of Professional Regulation
investigators on April 10, 1989 and thus would be unlikely to
intentionally conceal it later at the informal hearing.

VThus, although the Respondent was shown to have made
inaccurate statements to the Board, it was not shown that they
were intentionally deceptive, untrue or frauéulent. It has been
shown that, by his practice in the hospital emergency room
several days per month, he was actively engaged in the practice
of medicine in Florida at times pertinent tb the allegations of
Counts I and II of this complaint. It has not been preven by
clear and convincing evidence that he knowingly misrepresented or
concealed material facts during the disciplinary process involved
in the informal hearing of June 2, 1989.

A physician licensed in Florida is required to have a
registration with the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) in
order to legally prescribe controlled substances. See Sections

893.02(16), 893.04(1), Florida Statutes, and 21 USC, Section 301.

Valium is a Schedule IV controlled substance.
Morphine sulfate and cocaine hydrochloride are Schedule II

controlled substances. See Section 893.03, Florida Statutes
(1989).
The Petitioner has established that the Respondent

possessed no valid DEA registration on March 3, 1989 or March 20,

1989, when he prescribed these substances to patients. In fact,
his registration had expired on January 31, 1989 and was renewei
by him on March 23, 1989. Both shortly before and after the
expiration, the Respondent was undergoing severe life-threatepin;
medical problems involving a severe cardiac condition and a r
resultant surgery and recovery period. During this time, he
inadvertently let his registration lapse. Thus, it has been
shown by clear and convincing evidence that he technically
violated Section 458,331(l)(g), Florida Statutes (Count III) by
failing to perform a statutory or legal obligation places upon a
licensed physician although, due to the extenuating circumstances
involving his life-threatening medical condition, the resultant
treatment, surgery and recovery period for it, no penalty is
warranted for making these prescriptions while failing to keep
his DEA registration currEnt. The same consideration is true
regarding Count IV of this complaint wherein it is alleged that
the Respondent violated Section 458.331(l)(v), Florida Statutes,
for practicing medicine beyond the scope permitted by law. Here
again, no penalty is warranted under the circumstances.

Likewise, it has not been demonstrated that by prescribing these

controlled substances to these patients while his DEA

registratioh had technically expired, that the Respondent was
guilty of prescribing legend drugs inappropriately and not in the
best interest of patients and not in the course of his
professional practice. There was no showing by clear and
convincing evidence that the drugs prescribed and the amounts and

concentrations of them and the indications for prescribing them
were inapprohriate nor that they were not done in the best
medical interests of the patients. It was not demonstrated by
clear and convincing evidence that they were not done in the
course of his professional practice. The drugs were prescribed—
in the course of his professional practice as a licensed Florida’r
physician using his best judgment to treat his patients. The
fact that technically he could not legally prescribe the drugs
for a brief period of time does not render the indications for
prescribing them and the other circumstances surreunding those
patients’ conditions and his prescribing of the drugs to
alleviate their sufferings to be without the course of his
professional practice as a licensed physician. Thus, Count V has
not been proven by clear and convincing evidence.

Count VI cohcerns the charge that the Respondent is
guilty of false, deceptive or misleading advertising, as
proscribed by Section 458.331(1)(d), Florida Statutes (1989).

The Petitioner contends that the Respondent Was verbally informed
that his license would be suspended at the informal hearing on

June 2, 1989 and was informally apprised on June 19, 1989, of the
Board’s final order suspending his license (formal notice on June

23, 1989). It asserts that, since his advertising of his

affiliation with the Apalachicola Bay Community Clinic to

practice gynecology and family medicine was published on Jun

(I)
1..
(H

22 and 29, 1989, he was falsely adver"

medical practice beyond the time when he was authorized to

practice medicine in Florida.

This allegation has not been proven by clear and

convincing evidence. There has been no showing that he havh
any specific intent to falsely, deceptively, or misleadingly :
himself available to provide medical treatment through these

advertisements, as opposed td the equally—subbortable inference

period for them merely had not expired Until the June 29, 1989

edition. He only having.learned of the Board’s final order entr"

Ia

on June 19, 1989 (notice by certified mail on June 22, 1989),

not show any intent to practice medicine without proper
licensure. No evidence of such false, deceptive or misleading
intent in advertising has been demonstrated. For instance, 1'
was not shown that he actually attempted to practice medic‘

after June 15 or 19, 1989. Consequently, Count VI has not bee:

concerning the alleged violation of Section 458.331(1J(x),

Florida Statutes (1989), regarding the alleged violation of a
________________

the advertisements early upon learning of the entry of the order

on June 19, 1989 (not June 15th) does not itself establish by
clear and convincing evidence that he was practicing with a

suspendedilicense.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AS TO CASE NO. 89-6489
t___________________________*__________

The Administrative Complaint has charged, concerning

patient no. 1, that the Respondent failed to practice medicine
with that level of care, skill and treatment recognized by a
reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under
similar conditions and circumstances. The Respendent failed to
perform the procedure to which the patient consented, a bilateral:
salpingo-oophorectomy. He did not document in the record that he
informed or explained to her that the procedure was not performed
and why. His records do not show_why the procedure was or was
not medically necessary. Additionally, he performed a D&C
procedure which was not authorized by the patient; and the
records contain no documentation of the fact that he informed her
of performing that procedure nor the medical reasons why it was
indicated, if it was. Because of this and because he failed to
perform the procedure to which the patient had consented, the
;BS&O, without explanation in his records, it has been proven by
clear and convincing evidence that the Respondent is guilty as
charged in Count I of violating Section 458.331(l)(t), Florida
Statutes, by departing from the medical practice standard
mentioned in the paragraph above. It was not established,
however, that he failed to inform the patient that the procedure

which she consented to was not performed, the records merely do

. Moreover, although her eventual

death from ovarian cancer stemmed from the organs which he fai‘e-

to remove surgicall

y when the patient had authorized them to be

removed! it was not shown that they were in a cancerous or

cancerous condition at the time he performed the surgery or

otherwise that the lethal cancer condition resulted directlv ﬁrs:

H&u‘.

his failure to remove the organs at the time of the surgery 5

five years prior to the patient’s death. It was not shown that

Florida Statutes
_______________i

(1979), now substantially re-enacted as Section 45831;}(1)(m),

Florida Statutes, has been violated by the Respondent’s failure
————————~—————~—-

to keep written medical records justifying his course of

treatment of patient no. 1 by failing to document any reasons for

his plan to perform the BS&O procedure, to document any symptcms

or complaints by the patient, or to document why he changed his

plans and did not perform the planned procedure authorized by the
patient. This situation is distinguished from that of.Breesman
v.D

enartment of Professional Re ulations, 567 So.2d 469 (lst DCA
___u_a______________*_____.___E_______

1990), which held that the above statutory section was not

violated where a physician failed to document other courses of

treatment which he elected not to employ.

Here, the Respondent

planned the BS&O procedure and then changed his plan during

surgery. The basis for the chance was unexplained in his
records. He did not keep written records containing any

description of the patient’s fallopian tubes or ovaries, as
observed during the operation, nor why he performed a D&C to

which the patient had not consented, or why the procedures

performed were not discussed with the patient.

Concerning Count III, the Petitioner has shown by
clear and convincing evidence, which culminated in the above
Findings of Fact, describing in detail the Respondent’s practice
and treatment related to patient no. 2, that the Respondent is-
guilty of violating Section 458.331(l)(q), Florida Statutes, by.*t
administering the legend drug, marcaine, to patient no. 2 other
than in the course of his professional practice. The
administering of a legend drug inappropriately (here, by epidural
catheter) or in excessive or inappropriate quantities (12
milliliters of a 0.75% solution in a patient described as, and
under the circumstances of, the above Findings of Fact) was not
in the best interest of patient no. 2 and was thus not within the
proper course of the Respondent’s professional practice. The
inappropriate administration and the ekcessive concentration and
volume of marcaine for patient no. 2 prescribed and administered
under the Circumstances delineated in the above Findings of Fact
constitutes a violation of Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida
Statutes, as charged in Count IV, because the Respondent has been
proven by clear and convincing evidence to have failed to
practice medicine with that level of care, skill and treatment

recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physician as being

acceptable under those conditions and circumstances in light of

the above factual findings pertaining to this patient.

Count V of the complaint involves the charge that the

Respondent failed to keep written medical records justifying his

course of treatment of patient no. 2. This is a violation of

former Section 458.331(l)(n}, Florida Statutes (1983), now
_______________

substantially re-enacted as Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida

Statutes. The above Findings of Fact, supported by clear and

failed to document any justification for using a highly—

concentrated and dangerous agent, such as marcaine, in a volume

which was excessive under the circumstances with which the

patient presented (regardless of the allowable maximum dose

indicated in a general fashion in the PDR). It was an excessive

volume for a patient of this size and weight and medical

circumstance, including the circumstance that she gave every

indication of being able to accomplish a routine vaginal delivery

and thus clearly did not need such an excessive volume and

concentration of this drug, given the attendant risks, delineated

'in the above Findings of Fact, which, indeed, came to pass.

The Respondent additionally failed to keep any

anesthetic record concerning his evaluation of the patient, a

description of his anesthetic technique, nor any justification

for his anesthetic plan. Unrefuted testimony from an expert

anesthesiologist (Dr. Cross) establishes that an obstetrician who

prescribes, dispenses, and administers the anesthetic during a

surgical, obstetrical procedure is held to the same standard with

4'?

nts, caring for patients, and
documenting the anesthesia portion of his practice with regard

a patient, as is an anesthesiologist.
In Count VI, the Respondent is charged with a

.331(l)(t), Florida Statutes, concerhizc

a

patient no. 3. As delineated in more detail in the above
Findings of Fact, the Respohdent failed to take an adequate
history and to document the performance of an adequate physical
examination of this patient. He failed to correctly assess the
patient’s laboratory results, to obtain appropriate diagnostic—
studies and failed to adequately assess, monitor, or treat the
patient’s pregnancy-induced hypertension, as elaborated in
greater detail in the above Findings of Fact. He failed to
obtain an adequate or complete history and failed to perform an
adequate physical examination. He did not adequately assess or
monitor the pregnancy—induced hypertension, failed to adequately
treat that condition, failed to order appropriate diagnostic
studies to accurately determine fetal status prior to initiating
therapy to prolong the patient’s pregnancy, failed to adequately
assess the patient’s laboratory test results, and when there was
evidence that the baby was in distress, failed to deliver the
pregnancy immediately.

The above Findings of Fact show, based upon clear and
convincing evidence, that the Respondent prescribed, dispensed,
administered, mixed or otherwise prepared legend drugs

inappropriately or in excessive or inappropriate quantities, not

in the best interest of the patient, by prescribing aldomet for

n; 4»

PRE LIMINARY STATEMENT

This canse arose upon the filing of an Aﬁministrative
Complaint by the above-named Petitioner against the Respondent
alleging a violation of Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes
(1980), by his alleged failure to perform a surgical procedure
concerning the patient named in Counts I and II, to which that
patient had consented, thereby resulting in the necessity for
later surgery and chemotherapy when the organs in question became
cancerous. It is also alleged that he performed a dilation and
curettage (D&C) procedure on the patient without her consent or
knowledge; thus, allegedly failing to practice medicine with ah : *
acceptable level cf cere, skill and treatment. The Respondent J
was charged with regard to the-same patient, in Count II of the
Complaint, with failure to keep medical records which justified
the surgery performed, the failure to perform all of the
procedure consented to by the patient and for performing surgery
without the petient’s consent in alleged violation of Section

458.331(1)(n), Florida Statutes (1979), now Section

458.331(1) (m), Florida Statutes (1989).

Concerning patient no. 2, referenced in Counts III, IV
and V of the Complaint, it is alleged that the Respondent
inappropriately administered an excessive amount and
concantration of an anesthetic legend drug, commonly called
"marcaine" (%9q9vacaine), which allegedly resulted in patient no.
2’s cardiac arrest and subsequent death. The Respondent is

charged with violating Section 458.331(1)(q), Florida statutes

(1983), for administering this drug in excessive and

000555

the patient. This may have decreased placental petfusion or

blood flow. Prescribing lasix for the patient also can decrease
was
also inappropriate to prescribe yutopar to prolong the high-risk

pregnancy and to prescribe a corticosteriod cream for the pati

I'D

“.—
.eh—

IA»

as treatment for her condition (swelling), which the Respondett
had never diagnosed nor assessed. This amounts to prescribing,
dispensing, administering, etc. legend drugs not in the course of
the Respondent’s professional practice, in violation of Section
458.331(1) (q) , Florida Statutes.

Concerning Count VIII of the complaint, clear and
convincing evidehce, supportive of the above Findings of Fact,
established that the Respondent’s written medical records do not
justify the course of his treatment of patient no. 3, including,.
but not limited to, the patient’s history, exaﬁination test
results, and the failure to document any justification for the
Respondent’s failure to adequately assess, monitor and treat the

PIE. They do not contain justification-for the failure to order

H:
ID
'4
l”;
I:
H
(O
ff
0
DJ
In
In
{D
U!
U)
[1|
:1
Ch
D;
H.
W
“I
11
O
In
(D
rt‘
:1
{D
[n
i:
m
H
H
3.4.
:2!
Q
n:
:1
D.
(I
D
ID
I I)
[u
'4
|-‘
c:
H
[D
rt
0

adequately treat the patient during the C—section. They contain
inaccurate documentation to the effect that the patient had a
"saddleblock" anesthesia, when other medical records reveal that
it was an epidural anesthesia. The records do not document that
the patient’s labdratory test results were adequately assessed;

and there is no documentation of either an initial assessment of

the infant or his resuscitation efforts shortly after delivery.

This record-keeping deficit amounts to a violation of Section
458.331(l)(n), Florida Statutes (1981) (now Section

458.331(1) (m), Florida Statutes).

Concerning Count IX of the complaint, for all of the
reasons delineated in the above Findings of Fact with regard to
patient no. 4, it has been demonstrated that the Respondent
failed to practice medicine with that level of care, skill and
treatment recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physician as
being acceptable under similar conditions and circumstances. f
This is shown by the failure to obtain an adequate or complete '_H
history, to perform.an adequate physical examination on the
various dates delineated above, to adequately assess, diagnose
and treat the patient by failing to attempt a vaginal delivery,
and the failure to obtain informed consent from the patient for
sterilization prior to C-section. Additionally, the Respondent
failed to adequately assess, diagnose and treat the lacerated
cervix, and failed to adequately treat the patient during her
post—operative recovery period. Thus, a violation of Section
458.331(l)(t), Florida Statutes, has been established by clear
and convincing evidence in these particulars.

It has else been so demonstrated that by prescribing
the antibiotic, garamycin, without ordering attendant renal
function studies (because of the potential for kidney damage) and
by changiné the route of that medication to a less effective

means (oral), even though the patient remained febrile, amounts

to prescribing, dispensing, administering, etc. a legend drug,

other than in the course of his professional practice and
inappropriately, for purposes of Section 458.331(1)(q), Florida
tatutes (Count X).

Concerning Count XI, it was established, as shown by
the above Findings of Fact, that the Respondent failed to keep
written medical records justifying the course of treatment of
patient no. 4. He failed to document a complete history of the
patient and failed to make an adequate or complete physical
examination. He recorded no justification for the failure to
attempt to deliver the patient vaginally; to document any _
justification for continued use of the nasogastric tube afterlthe
patient began eating; to document any justification for not
ordering renal function studies with the use of the above-named
antibiotic and failed to document any justification for changing‘

the route of administration of that antibiotic in a febrile

patient. He recorded statements in the discharge summary which

ID

are directly contradicted by the Respondent’s statements in th
medical records; and failed to document any explanation for the
contradictory statements contained in these records. This
constitutes a violation of Section 458.331(l)(m), Florida

Statutes.

Concerning Count XII of the complaint, the Petitioner
has demonstrated by clear and convincing evidence, culminating in
the above Findings of Fact, that the Respondent is gui ty of
unprofessional conduct, incompetence, and negligence, in

violation of Section 458.1201(l)(m), Florida Statutes (1977), new

 

incorporated into Section 458.33l(1)(t), Florida Statutes (1989).

51

Unprofessional conduct shall include any departure from or the
failure to conform to the standards of acceptable and prevailing
medicai practice within a physician’s area of expertise, as
determined by the Board, in which proceeding actual injury to a
patient need not be established when the same is committed in the
course of a physician’s practice. There is no question, given
the above Findings of Fact, that the Respondent did not conform
to standards of acceptable and prevailing medical practice within
his area of expertise in his conduct of the care and treatment of
patient no. 5. Thus, he has committed a violation bf Section ~
458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes.
RECOI'R'IENDATION

Having considered the foregoing Findings of Fact,
Conclusions of Law, the evidence of record, the candor and
demeanor of the witnesses, and the pleadings and arguments of the
parties, as hell as the disciplinary guidelines and the
consideration of aggravating and mitigating circumstances as
provided for in Rule 21M—20, Florida Administrative Code,
official recognition of which was taken; to wit, the exposure of
the patient to injury or potential injury, the number of counts
of separate offenses proven, and the disciplinary history of the
licensee, it is therefore,

RECOMMENDED that the Respondent be found guilty of
violating Subsection 458.331(l)(g), Florida Statutes, as
concluded hereinabove, with regard to Case No. 90—2680, but, in

consideration of the above—referenced circumstances, that no

penalty be imposed.

52

With regard to Case No. 89-6489, it is RECOMMENDED
that the Respondent be found guilty of violating the above
enumerated subsections of Section 458.331(l), Florida Statutes,
as concluded above, and that the Respondent’s license to practice

medicine in the State of Florida be revoked.

DONE AND ENTERED this i lday of September, 1991, in

Tallahassee, Leon County, Florida.

  

    

=T’MI .-'L r FF
Hearing Of '
Division of Administrativ
The DeSoto Building

1230 Apalachee Parkway
Tallahassee, FL 32399-1550
(904) 488-9675

 
  
  

n/Hearings

Filed with the Clerk of the
Division of Administrative Hearings
this 247639 of September, 1991.

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO SUBMIT EXCEPTIONS: All
parties have the right to submit written
exceptions to this Recommended Order. All
agencies allow each party at least 10 davs in
which to submit written exceptions. Some
agencies allow a larger period within which
to submit written exceptions. You should
contact the aqency that will issue the final
order in this case concerninc aqencx rules on

the deadline for filing excentions to this
Recommended Order. Any exceptions to this

Recommended Order should be filed with the

agency that will issue the final order in
this case.

00005753

..v.-:v-L’.g ‘.1.' 5;“. .,.-1:. mum ‘. ;.

Copies furnished to:

Dorothy Faircloth, Executive Director
Board of Medicine

Department of Professional Regulation
Northwood Centre, Suite 60

1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, FL 32399-0792

Jack McRay, Esq.

General Counsel

Department of Professional Regulation
Northwood Centre, Suite 60

1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, FL 32399-0792

Mary B. Radkins, Esq.

Senior Attorney

Department of Professional
Regulation

Northwood Centre, Suite 60

1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, FL 32399-0792

Elliott F. Monroe, M.D.

2709 Arden
Panama City, FL 32401

nnnni-‘1854

APPENDIX TO RECOMMENDED ORDER
IN CASE NOS. 89-6489 and 90-2680

Petitioner's Progosed Findings of Fact
Case No. 90-2680

1-5. Accepted.

6. Rejected, as subordinate to the Hearing Officer’s
findings of fact on this subject matter.

7—8. Accepted.

9. Rejected, as not in accordance with clear and
convxncing evidence.

10. Accepted.
11-12. Accepted. - 4

13. Rejected, as not in accordance with clear and 5
convincing evidence.

14-20. Acceptéd.
Case No. 89-6489
1—7. Accepted.

8. Rejected, as it was not established with clear and
convincing evidence what the patient believed.

9-13. Accepted.

14. Rejected, as not entirely supported by the
evidence and as subordinate to the Hearing Officer’s findings cf
fact.

15-28. Accepted.
29—69. ‘Accepted.
70—83. Accepted.

84-95. Accepted.

96. Rejected, as subordoinate to the Hearing Officer’s
findings of fact on this subject matter.

97-103. Accepted.

104—120. Accepted.

55
nnnnso

Resgondent's ProgoSed Findings of Fact
Case No. 89-6489

1. Accepted, except as to time period noted.

2. Rejected, as subordinate to the Hearing Officer’s
findings of fact on this subject matter and as not entirely
supported by the evidence.

3. Rejected, as subordinate to the Hearing Officer’s
findings of fact on this subject matter and as not entirely
supported by the evidence.

4. Rejected, as subordinate to the Hearing Officer’s
findings of fact on this subject matter and as not entirely

supported by the evidence.

5. Rejected, as subordinate to the Hearing Officer's_
findings of fact on this subject matter and as not entirely
supported by the evidence. "

Case No. 90-2680

1. Accepted, in part, but subordinate to the Hearing
Officerfs findings of fact.

2. Accepted,

nnnneg

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL

REGULATION,
Petitioner, CASE NO: 9000576
8901767
8905399
vs. ’

ELLIOTT FAIL MONROE, M.D.

Respondent.

D N V AI

COMES Now the Petitioner, Department of Professional;

," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against

Elliott Fail Monroe, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent",

and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the

practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida Statutes;

Chapter 455, Florida statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto

a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued

license number ME 0019670. Respondent's last three known address
-\-.

are (1) P. O. Box 3818, Panama City, Florida 32402, (2) 236 South

Florida 32404, (3) 11110 West 10th
Court, Panama City, Florida 32401.

Tyndall Parkway, Panama City,

£21913

Respondent appeared before the Board of Medicine
Tallahassee,

3. in

Florida on June 2, 1989 for an Informal Hearing in the

000128

H. In response to a question from Dr. Skinner Respondent

affirmed that he had not seen, talked to, examined, prescribed for

or otherwise had dealings with patients since his return to Florida

in 1989 except for one day in the emergency room.

6. On April 10, 1989 Respondent stated to Department of

Professional Regulation investigators J.w. Reese and T.K. Hannah

that he was working in the Emergency Room of Weems Hospital in

Apalachicola two (2) days a week, and specifically on March 20,

1989.

7. Respondent signed Emergency Room Reports at Weems General

Hospital in Apalachicola, Florida on March 3, 30, April 25, May 20,

June 20, 1989.

8. The Weems General Hospital Emergency Room Register for

March 1989 reflects Respondent to be a treating physician on March

3, 4, 5, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 30,
and 31, 1989.

9. Respondent 'signed prescriptions on AKBAR Clinic

Prescription pads on March 3, 7, 18, and 20, 1989.

10. Respondent acknowledged to Department of Professional

Regulation Investigator, C. Wheelahan, that the signature on the

prescriptions written on AKBAR Clinic prescription pads, on March

3, 7, 18, and 20, 1989 were his.

U ON

11. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

through ten (10) as if fully set forth herein.

0001,30

ineppropriate quantities, in a manner not in the best interest of
the patient; with failure to practice medicine with an acceptable
level of care, skill and treatment, a violation of Section
458.331(t), Florida Statutes (1983); and with violating Section
458.331(1)(n), Florida Statutes, now Section 458.331(1)(m),
Florida Statutes (1989), in that the Respondent’s written medical
records for that patient fail to justify the administration of
such a large concentration and volume of the drug.

In Count VI,‘the Respondent is alleged to have
practiced below an acceptable level of care, skill and treatment
with regard to patient no. 3 by failing to obtein or documentqthe;
Ipatient’s medical history; to utilize appropriate studies to ~
determine fetal status before initiating therapy to prolong the
pregnancy, in a patient with pregnancy—induced hypertension; by
failing to assess and treat her pregnancy~induced hypertension:
and by failing to appreciate her abnormal test results. The
Respondent is also charged with violating Section 458.331(1)(q),
Florida Statutes (1982) (Count VII), by inappropriately treating
the patient with aldomet, lasix, yutopar, and a corticosteriod
cream during the course of her hospitalization. The Respondent
is charged with multipie failures to keep medical records
justifying his course of treatment of this patient in violation
of what is now numbered as Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida
Statutes (Count VIII).

With regard to Count IX, the Respondent is charged
with failing to practice medicine in accordance with the above—

mentioned standard with respect to patient no. 4 by allegedly

3

000007

r)

12. Based on the foregoing Respondent has violated Section

458.331{1)(k), Florida statutes,

that he never practiced
medicine in Florida in 1989 except for one day in March, that he

never practiced at the AKBAR Clinic in Panama City,

he never saw, talked to, examined

I

Respondent misrepresented or concealed material facts during a
disciplinary process.

15. Based on the foregoing Respondent has violated Section

458.331(1}(hh), Florida Statutes,

material fact at any time during any phase of a licensing or

disciplinary process or procedure.

m

16. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
and two (2) as if fully set forth herein.
1?.

Current Drug Enforcement Administration (hereinafter DEA

)

OOUIBI

or- I «
._._. a

registration is required to legally prescribe controlled
substances.

18. On or about January 31, 1989, Respondent's DEA
registration expired.

19. On or about March 3, 1989 Respondent prescribed Valium to
patient #1.
20.

Valium is a Schedule IV controlled substance a
in Chapter 893, Florida statutes.

21. On or about March 20,

1989 Respondent prescribed to

patient #2 a medicinal mixtur

e which contained Morphine Sulfate and
Cocaine Hydrochloride.

22. Morphine Sulfate and Cocaine Hydrochloride are Schedule

II controlled substances as defined in Chapter 893, Florida

Statutes.

23. On or about March 23, 1989 Respondent obtained current DEA

registration.

24. Respondent a statutory or legal

Respondent prescribed

(Valium) to patient #1 when

Respondent did not have cur

rent DEA registration; and Respondent

Based on the preceding allegations,

Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(g},

Florida Statutes,

by failing to perform a
statutory or legal obligation placed upon

a licensed physician.

{HUN}?

COUNT FOUR
_______.___
26 Petltloner realleges and 1ncorporates paragraphs one (1),
two (2),

27.

four (24) and

seven (27) as if fully set forth herein.

30. Respondent prescribed, dispensed, administered, mixed, or

otherwise prepared legend drugs,

limited to, the following:

Respondent prescribed a Schedule IV controlled substance (Valium)

to patient #1 when Respondent did not have

000|33

Section 458.331{1)(q), Florida Statutes,

prescribing, dispensing,

For

it shall be legally presumed that

administering,

ry action 1n
Texas" agalnst Respondent's license to practice in that state was
completed.
34.

000l3h

Based on the preceding allegatio

n,
Section 458.331(1)(d),

false,

, fourteen (14),

four (24), twenty—seven (27),

through thirty-
39.

40. Based on the preceding allegation,

Section 458.331(1)(x), Florida Statutes,

of Chapter 458,

E :3;

penalties: Revocation or suspension of the Respondent'

3 license,
restriction of

the Respondent's

practice, imposition of
administrative fine,

an

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this (May of W

, 1990.
_*_______________________

Larry Gonzalez
Secretary

Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Lynne A. Quimby-Pennock
Senior Attorney

Department of Professional

Regulation F l L E D .
1940 North Monroe Street DepartmengggggeéiggiiReguiataon
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750 ,

(904) 488-0062

Florida Bar No. 394572 55’ {lg
LAQP/asc/gs J“ 6372—!
3/12/90 ‘

 

 

000136

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL

REGULATION,
Petitioner,
DPR CASE NO. 0079194
0081388
0081390
0063999
vs. 0081391
ELLIOTT F. MONROE, 14.13.
Respondent. /
.______________________i__i______
ADMIRISIRAII¥E_CQMBLAIHI

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional

Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner"

, and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine

against Elliott F. Monroe, M.D., hereinafter referred to as

"Respondent", and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with

regulating the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30,

Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458,

Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material

hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been

issued license number ME 0019670; however, on or about June 15,

1989, Respondent's license was suspended by the State Board of

Medical Examiners. Respondent's last known address is 4000 Third

Street, Panama City, Florida 32401.

000137

(1), and two (2), as if fully set forth herein.

4. From on or about October 11,

October 18, 1980

for patient #1 in that he was the attending physician for her

hospital admission during that time frame. Patient #l's

admitting diagnosis was Abdominal Mass.

The Respondent failed to document any justification

for not performing the Bilateral Salpingo—oophorectomy to which

patient #1 had consented or for performing the Dilation and

Curettage to which patient #1 had not consented.

000138.

12. On or about June 21, 1985, the subsequent treating

physician performed an exploratory laparotomy upon patient #1

which resulted in the removal of the left ovary,
the right fallopian tube.

13.

right ovary and

The pathology report concerning the patient's ovaries

revealed Papillary Serous Cystadenocarcinoma, Grade IV, which

resulted in the patient receiving chemotherapy following her
hospitalization.

Respondent failed to

perform a bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy upon patient #1 when

she had consented to the procedure; Respondent failed to inform

patient #1 that the bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy had not been

performed; Respondent's failure to perform the bilateral

salpingo-oophorectomy resulted in the patient having to undergo

additional surgery and chemotherapy when the organs became

cancerous; Respondent performed a dilation and curettage upon

patient #1 without obtaining informed consent; and Respondent

failed to inform patient #1 that he had performed a dilation and
curettage.

000139.

L 0

15. Based on the preceding allegations,

violated Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida

Respondent

Statutes, in that

circumstances.

16. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one

(1), and two (2), and paragraphs four (4) through fourteen (14) i
as if fully set forth herein.
17.

curettage to which patient #1 had not consented; and Respondent

failed to document any justification for his failure to obtain

informed consent from patient #1 prior to performing the dilation
and curettage.

18. Based on the preceding allegations,

violated Section 458.331(1)(n),

Respondent

Florida Statutes(1979), now

458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes (1987), in that_Respondent failed

to keep written medical records justifying the course of
treatment of patient #1 including,
histories,

but not limited to, patient

examination results and test results.

000MB

fallopian tube or the patient’s endometriosis.

These charges became DOAH Case No. 89-6489. On March

it is ‘

medicine for only one day in March of

1989. It is claimed that he asserted on that occasion that he

had never practiced at the AKBAR Clinic, there

deceptive,

Florida Statutes.
._________________

In Count II of the second Complaint, the Respondent is

charged with misrepresenting or co

3..-..-

a phase of a disciplinary process, in alleged vioiation of

Section 458.33l(l)(hh), Florida Statutes, by asserting before the
____i____i__i__

Board of Medicine, during an informal hearing, that he had never

seen, talked to, examined, prescribed, or otherwise had business

with patients in Florida during 1989, except for one day in

March. In Count III of the second Complaint, the Respondent is

5
000009

CQHNI_IHBEE
EAnIa_Raxnainingnnn_2nhient_£2

Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one

(1), and two (2), as if fully set forth herein.

19.

20. From on or about June 4, 1983 through on or about

When the RespOndent arrived, patient #2 was moved to

the delivery room where the Respondent initiated epidural

Marcaine is a legend drug as defined in Section

499.003(15), Florida Statutes. This drug is used to produce

local or regional anesthesia for surgery or obstetrical

procedures. The 0.75% concentration was generally reserved for

use in Cesarean sections when utilized in obstetrics; and, in

OODIM

29. Following the delivery, patient #2 was transferred to

the medical intensive care unit.

30. On or about June 5, 1983, the Respondent ordered a

neurological evaluation of patient #2 which revealed probable

cerebral hypoxic damage with evidence of only brain stem
function.

31. On or about June 6,

cardiac arrest,

32. Respondent prescribed, dispensed,

patient #2, including, but not limited to, the following:

administered twelve milliliters of 0.75% Marcaine to achieve
anesthesia for a vaginal delivery.

33. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent

violated Section 458.331(1)(q), Florida Statutes, in that he is

guilty of prescribing, dispensing, administering, mixing, or

otherwise preparing a legend drug,

For the purposes of this paragraph, it

shall be legally presumed that prescribing, dispensing,

administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing legend drugs,

including all controlled substances, inappropriately or in “

professional practice, without regard to his intent.

BODMS

a highly concentrated anesthetic agent which bordered on

sufficient for a Cesarean section.

36. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331(1)(t), Florids Statutes, in that the
Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or the
failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill, and

treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar

physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and

circumstances.

CQUNI_EIYE

37. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1), through two (2), paragraphs twenty (20) through thirty-two
(32) and paragraph thirty-five (35) as if fully set forth herein.
38. Respondent failed to keep written medical records

justifying the course of treatment of patient #2 including, but

not limited to, the following: Respondent failed to document any

agent for an imminent vaginal delivery; and Respondent failed to
document any justification for utilizing a dosage volume of
highly concentrated anesthetic agent for a vaginal delivery when

such a dosage volume bordered on an amount appropriate for a

Cesarean section.

39. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331(1)(n), Florida Statutes (1983), now

Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes (1987), in that

Respondent failed to keep written medical records justifying the

000m

course of treatment of patient #2 including, but not limited to,

patient histories, examination results and test results.
CQHHI_SIX
WM

40. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) and two (2) as if fully set forth herein.

41. From on or about December 2, 1982 until on or about
December 16, 1982, Respondent provided medical care and treatment
for patient #3 in that he was the attending physician for her
hospital admission during that time frame.

42. On or about December 2, 1982, patient #3 presented tO'V:
the hospital with an elevated blood pressure (140/100) and V
complaints of labor. The patient stated that she had recently
moved to the area, and she gave the name and location of her
previous treating physician and stated that her due date was
December 17, 1982.

43. 'Respondent failed to obtain and document an adequate
or complete history of patient #3 in that: Respondent failed to
document historical facts concerning patient #3, such as, past
and present medicatiens, general health, family history of
diseases, drug intake, past illness including hospitalization and
surgery, history of cardiac disease, hypertension or smoking,
date of last menses, previous prenatal care and due date
ascertained from previous prenatal care; and the Respondent
failed to obtain the patient's records from the previous treating

physician or to contact this physician for an oral report.

000MB

44. On or about December 3, 1982, the Respondent
diagnosed patient #3 with pregnancy induced hypertension (P.I.H.)
for which he prescribed Lasix and Aldomet.

45. Lasix is a legend drug as defined in Section
465.003(7), Florida Statutes (1981), now defined in Section
499.003(15), Florida Statutes (1987). This drug is a potent
diuretic; therefore, frequent serum electrolyte determinations
should be performed.

46. Aldomet is a legend drug as defined in Section
465.003(7), Florida Statutes (1981), now defined in Section
499.003(15), Florida Statutes (1987). This drug is an
sntihypertensive agent.

47. On or about December 3, 1982, Respondent ordered a
sonogram of patient #3 which noted the gestation to be 32.7 weeks
based solely on the fetus' biparietal diameter measurement.

48. (Respondent failed to document an explanation
concerning his acceptance of the estimated gestational_age of 32
weeks.

49. On or about December 5, 1982 patient #3 experienced
vaginal bleeding and uterine contractions for which the
Respondent ordered the patient typed and crossmatched for four
units of Packed Red Blood Cells. The Respondent also ordered the
administration of intravenous Yutopar to stop the patient's
uterine activity.

50. Respondent failed to monitor the patient's hemoglobin

during or following her bleeding episode.

000MB

51. Respondent failed to order appropriate diagnostic
studies to accurately determine fetal status prior to initiating
therapy.to prolong the patient's pregnancy in that: Respondent
failed to request clarification of the substandard sonogram
report received on or about December 3, 1982 which failed to
ascertain femur lengths, abdominal measurements, survey fetal
organs, ascertain the amount of amniotic fluid present or to
grade the placenta; Respondent failed to order non-streas tests
and/or contraction stress tests to determine fetal well-being;
Respondent failed to order an ultrasound to evaluate for
Intrauterine Growth Retardation, placental grading and amOunt of
amniotic fluid; Respondent failed to order amniocentesis to check
for fetal maturity; Respondent failed to order tests to check for
fetal cells in the patient's body vaginal discharge; and
Respondent failed to order repeat sonograms following the
patient‘s bleeding episode on or about December 5, 1982.

52. 'On or about December 5, 1982, Respondent ordered that
patient #3 be placed on an External Fetal Monitor.

53. Respondent failed to document any assessment of the

fetal monitor tracings obtained from patient #3.

54. On or about December 5, 1982, the medical records
reveal that the patient complained of swelling of her vulva, and
on that date Respondent prescribed Corticosteroid cream as

treatment for the patients vulvar condition.

55. Respondent failed to assess and diagnose the

patient's vulvar swelling for which he prescribed treatment.

00011;?

56. On or about December 10, 1982 Respondent prescribed a
Pitocin infusion for patient #3 which was started at or about
11:15 p.m.

57. On or about December 11, 1982 at or about 7:13 a.m.,
Respondent ruptured the patient's amniotic membrane revealing
"brown red amniotic fluid." The Respondent also applied an
internal fetal monitor eleotrode to the presenting part at this
time.

58. On or about Decmeber 11, 1982 at or about 8:30 a.m.,
Respondent initiated an epidural as anesthesia for patient #3;
however, the exact procedure, time and amount of anesthetic were
not documented.

59. On or about December 11, 1982 at or about 10:05 a.m.,
Respondent reinjected the patient's epidural with ten milliliters
of 0.75% Marcaine. At that time the patient‘s blood pressure was
noted as 182/104.

60. -On or about Decmber 11, 1982 at or about 11:25 a.m.,
the Anesthesia Record reveals that the Respondent reiujected the

patient's epidural.

61. On or about December 11, 1982 at or about 11:32 a.m.,
Respondent performed a Cesarean Section upon patient #3; and, at

or about 11:36 a.m., the Respondent delivered a viable female

infant.

62. The medical records reveal that following the
delivery the Respondent intubated the infant either two or three
times and aspirated the glottis. The infant was then ventilated

by Ambu bag per the Certified Nurse Anesthetist, and the infant

ooorua

was transported to the Nursery. The infant was subsequently
transferred to Sacred Heart Hospital, Pensacola, Florida, on or

about December 11, 1982 at or about 4:15 p.m.

63. Respondent failed to document either an initial

assessment of the infant's condition or his resuscitation efforts

at the delivery.

64. Respondent failed to adequately treat patient #3

during the Cesarean Section in that: Respondent failed to have a

physician present at delivery to care for the infant; Respondent

failed to have a physician assist with the patient's surgery to A
prevent abandonment of the surgical patient should the infant's
resuscitation require a physician's assistance; and Respondent
abandoned the patient during the surgical procedure to assist
with resuscitation of the infant.

65. Respondent documented in the operative record that

Section; however the Anesthesia Record, the Delivery Record, the
Labor Record and the OB/Recovery Room Record documented that the

patient had an epidural_anesthesia which the Respendent initiated

and redosed prior to surgery.

66. On or about December 11, 1982, Respondent failed to

perform and document an adequate physical examination upon
patient #3 in that: Respondent failed to measure the patient's

fundal height; Respondent failed to assess the patient's bleeding

episode; Respondent failed to assess the swelling of the
patient's vulva for which he prescribed treatment; Respondent

failed to assess the patient's cervical effacement; Respondent

000iu9'

a vaginal discharge; Respondent

, and Respondent

Respondent failed to adequately assess and/or monitor

patient #3'3 pregnancy induced hypertension in that: Respondent

failed to check the patient's reflexes; Respondent failed to

Respondent failed to order liver function testing on the patient

prior to delivery; and the Respondent failed to check the

s coagulation parameters.

68.

patient'

and Respondent failed to transfer this high risk patient
to a major medical center.

OUUiSO

alleged to have violated Section 458.331(l)(g), Florida Statutes,
by failing to perform a statutory or legal obligation placed on a
licensed physician in that he prescribed controlled substances
with no current DEA (Drug Enforcement Administration)
registration. He is charged in Count IV with thUS violating
Section 458.331(l)(v), Florida Statutes, by allegedly practicing
beyond the scope permitted by law. He is charged in Count V with
violating Section 458.331(l)(q), Florida Statutes, by practicing
other than in the course of his professional practice by
prescribing these controlled substances without proper
registration. In Count VI, he is alleged to have been guilty 6::
false, deception or misleading advertising by advertising his
affiliation with the Apalachicola Bay Community Clinic after his
license to practice medicine in Florida had been suspended by the
Board of Medicine, in alleged violation of Section 458.331(1)(d),
Florida Statutes. In this particular, he is also charged with
violating Section 458.33l(l)(x), Florida Statutes, by violating a
lawful order of the Board of Medicine by advertising his
affiliation with that clinic when his license to practice
medicine had previously been suspended (Count VII .

The cause came on for hearing as noticed. The
testimony and evidence concerning Case No. 90—2680, the seven-
count Complaint referenced last above, was presented first. In
that case, the Petitioner presented the testimony of eight
witnesses and 11 exhibits, 10 of which were admitted into
evidence and one of which was withdrawn (Exhibit No. 8). In Case

No. 89-6489, the Petitioner presented the testimony of five

6000\0

records reveal the following abnormal values on or about the

following dates:
12/02/82

12/11/82
1:10 p.m.

12/11/82
4:30 p.m.

12/12/82
12/14/82

12/15/32

WBC

MCHC

RDW
PLT
SEG

SODIUM
POTASSIUM
CHLORIDE

C02

WBC
REC
HGB
HCT
MCH

MCHC

RDW
SEG

LYMPH
MONO

HCT

HCT

SODIUM

WBC
RBC
HGB
HCT
MCH
RDW
PLT

BAND
LYMPH
MYELO

T PROTEIN

ALBUMIN
CALCM

PHOS

CREATININE
ALKALINE PHOS

00015!

11. 6
32.0
13. 8
125
75

124
5.1
97
21

31.5
3. 73
11.8
36. 2
31. 7
32.7
14.8

84

10

34

30.8

134

29.5
2 35
7.8
22. 5
33. 3
12. 3
89
33

uh
O

o o o

Hlacn~2H
b\JDLum

3M“ '

LDH

477
SGOT 47
BLOOD SUGAR 66

70.

episode; his failure to assess and diagnose the swelling of the

patient's vulva which he treated; his failure to adequately treat

patient #3 during the Cesarean Section; his documentation that

the patient had Saddle Block anesthesia when the medical records

failed to adequately treat the patient's pregnancy induced
hypertension;

Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent

violated Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, in that '

Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or the

failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill and

treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar

physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and

circumstances.

Respondent prescribed, dispensed, administered

I
mixed, or otherwise prepared legend drugs, inappropriately or in

excessive or inappropriate quantities not in the best interest of

patient #3, including, but not limited to, the following:

Respondent prescribed Aldomet for the patient which may have

decreased placental perfusion; Respondent prescribed Lasix for

000153

mixing, or

including all controlled
substances, other than in the course of the physician's

professional practice. For the purposes of this paragraph, it 7

shall be legally presumed that prescribing, dispensing,

administering, mixing,

CQHNILEIGHI

Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1), through two (2),

76.

paragraphs forty-ona (41) through seventy-

one (71) and paragraph seventy-four (74) as if fully set forth

herein.

, Respondent failed
to document an explanation concerning his acceptance of the

estimated gestational age of the fetus;

78. Based on the preceding allegations,

Respondent
violated Section 458.33l(1)(n),

Florida Statutes (1981), now

Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes (1987), by failing to

keep written medical records justifying the course of treatment
of the patient including,

but not limited to, patient histories,

examination results and test results.

CQHHI_NINE

WW“

Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs
(1) and two (2} as if fully set forth herein.
80.

79.

From on or about June 21,

October 18, 1980, Respondent provided medical care and treatment

for patient #4.

hypertension

history of first labor, and the patient's interest in
sterilization.

83. On or about October 8, 1980, Respondent failed to
perform and document an adequate physical examination upon

patient #4 in that: Respondent failed to perform a review of the

000156

85. On or about October 8, 1980 Respondent prescribed

Valium ten milligrams for patient #4; and the patient received

the injection at or about 5:20 p.m. on that date.

86. On or about October 8, 1980 at or about 5:25 p.m.

the patient was completely dilated and '

, 1980 at or about 5:45 p.m.,
Respondent initiated an epidural anesthesia upon patient #4.

90. On or about October 8, 1980 at or about 5:30 p.m.,

Respondent obtained consent from the patient's mother to perform

a sterilization upon the patient via Cesarean Section.

92.

Cesarean Section.

93.

the patient's Cesarean Section was accomplished without

complications and with only 100 milliliters of blood lost.

94. On or about October 8, 1980 at or about 7:00 p.m., -

the patient was transferred from the operating room to the

recovery room in satisfactory condition.

95. On or about October 8, 1980 at or about 7°

.05 p.m.,
Respondent was notified that the patient was bleeding heavily and

passing large clots from her vagina.

96.7 On or about October 8,

.30 p.m ,
Respondent treated the patient's condltlon noted in paragraph 95
by insertlng vaginal packing and ordering blood transfusions

98. On or about October 8, 1980 at or about 9:30 p.m.,

patient #4 was transferred to the Recovery Room where she

the patient continued to

at or about 10:00 p.m.

_ 99. , 1980 at or about 10:00 p.m.,

the Respondent performed a Laparotomy upon patient #4 and

diagnosed the source of her bleeding as a com

intramuscular to the less effective oral route although the
patient remained febrile.

remained febrile.

103. On or about October 17, 1980 Respondent failed to

perform and document an adequate physical examination upon ”

patient #4 in that: Respondent failed to perform a review of the

patient's body systems;

examination;

the following: Respondent

documented that the patient's Cesarean Section produced

than usual bleeding"; and Respondent documented that the patient

"more

9mm

CZ“:

witnesses and 34 exhibits, one of which was late filed. The
Respondent submitted three exhibits. The Respondent presented
the testimony of two witnesses. One "court exhibit" was
admitted. Additionally, official recognition was taken of the
orders related to the Respondent’s prior disciplinary action in
Texas, Louisiana and Alabama, as well as by the Florida Board of
Medicine, and of Chapter 21M, Florida AdministratiVe Code.

The proceedings were transcribed after the hearing.
After stipulating to an extended briefing schedule, the parties
filed proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law in the
form of Preposed Recommended Orders. The proposed findings of
fact contained therein are addressed ih this Reconnended Order:
and again specifically ruled upon in the Appendix attached hereto
and incorporated by reference herein. The findings of fact made
below will relate first to Case No. 90—2680.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Case No. 90-2680

1. At all times pertinent to this proceeding, the
Respondent, Elliott F. Monroe, M.D., was licensed as a physician
in the State of Florida. He holds license number 330019670. He
is a Boatd-certified obstetrician and gynecologist. The
Petitioner is an agency of the State of Florida charged with
enforcing the provisions of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, which
contain the licensure and practice standards for medical
practitioners in Florida.

2. On June 2, 1989, the Respondent appeared before

the Board of Medicine in Tallahassee, Florida, at an informal

7
0000i!

, 1980 or on or about October 17, 1980;
Respondent failed to adequately assess,

patient by failing to

109. Respondent prescribed, dispensed, administered,

mixed, or otherwise prepared legend drugs, inappropriately or in

excessive or inappropriate quantities not in the best

interest of
patient #4, including,

allegations, Respondent

violated Section 458.331(1)(q), Florida Statutes, in that he is

guilty of prescribing, dispensing, administering,

mixing, or
otherwise preparing a legend drug,

dispensing,

administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing legend drugs,

including all controlled substances, inappropriately or in

CQHHI_ELEIEH

Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through two (2),

111.

paragraphs eighty (80 through one hundred

six (106) and paragraph one hundred nine (109) as if fully set
forth herein.

CQHHI_IHELXE

EACIS_£EBIAIHIHG_IQ_EAIIENI_£5

tioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) and two (2) as if fully set forth herein.

7114. Peti

115. From on or about April 27,

1979 until on or about
April 28,

Respondent failed to ‘

document historical facts concerning patient #5, such as, past

and present medication, general health, family history of

diseases, drug intake, past illness including hospitalization and

surgery, history of cardiac disease, hypertension or smoking,

history of pregnancies and date of last menses.

117,

120. On or about April 2?, 1979 Respondent obtained

consent from patient #5 to perform a mini-laparotomy laparoscopic

bilateral tubal ligation with dilation and curettage.

/ I; 4‘

1980 or on or about October 17, 1980;

Respondent failed to document any justification for his failure

to attempt to deliver patient #4 vaginally; Respondent failed to

document any justification for his continued use of a nasogastric

tube after allowing the patient to eat; Respondent failed to

document any justification for his failure to order renal

intramuscular to the less effective oral route even though the

patient remained febrile; Respondent documented in the Discharge

Summary statements which were contradicted by the medical

records;

Respondent

violated Section 458.331(1)(n), Florida Statutes (1977), now

Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes (1987), by failing to

keep written medical records justifying the course of treatment

of the patient including, but not limited to, patient histories,

examination results and test results.

122. On or about April 27, 1979 Respondent performed a

dilation and curettage and laparoscopic bilateral tubal ligation
upon patient #5.

In the operative
report the Respondent documented under Findings that the

patient's left fallopiah tube was missing, but under Technique

the Respondent documented that the left tube was identified and

cauterized at two places; in the operative report the Respondent

refers to the patient's prior ovarian or tubal surgery which he

failed to document or describe in the patient's history and

physical report;

operative report.

000155

that: Resp0ndent failed to visualize the patient's left
fallopian tube, but he dOCumented that it was missing; and
Respondent failed to describe the patient's area of

endometriosis.

128. Respondent failed to document any justification for L73

his failure to adequately assess the patient's left fallopian
tube or endometriosis.

129. Respondent demonstrated incompetence and negligence
in his care and treatment of the patient in that: Respondent
failed to obtain an adequate or complete history of the patient;
Respondent failed to perform an adequate physical examination
upon the patient; Respondent failed to adequately assess,
diagnose and chart a plan of treatment concerning the patient's
need for a dilation and curettage; Respondent failed to correlate
the treatment rendered (Dilation and Curettage) to the patient's
complaint or condition; Respondent documented an inaccurate
operative report which contained conflicting information about
the surgical procedure performed upon the patient's left
falloPian tube; Respondent failed to include endometriosis (which
was discovered during surgery) as a diagnosis for the patient;

Respondent failed to adequately assess the patient's left

0001236-

fallopian tube; and Respondent failed to adequately assess the

patient's area of endometriosis which was discovered during

surgery.

130. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 558.1201(1)(m), Florida Statutes (1977), this

section has been incorporated into Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida

Statutes (1987), in that Respondent is guilty of immoral or

unprofessional conduct, incompetence, negligence, or willful

misconduct. Unprofessional conduct shall include any departure

from, or the failure to conform to,

the standards of acceptable

and prevailing medical practice in his area of expertise as
determined by the board, in which proceeding actual injury to a
patient need not to be established when the same is committed in

the course of his practice, whether committed within or without

this state.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner reapectfully requests the Board

of Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following

penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an

administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

 

‘ SIGNED this 80““ day of QJ-nbbx. , 1989.
WwF—r -_—"—--------—--—-~——_._
3- - .- . _ ﬂ
IF ' I F Larry Gonzalez
""“” . Secretary

BfgifgfwuknuLd-(Q/2:2(j
c".uu, L.¢,¢ tephanie A. Daniel

\ ”:H‘”'—’ Chief Medical Attorney
£MQ2ﬂﬁZJ£Q¢5f9 000§67

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Don A. Hyman

Senior Attorney

Department of Professional
Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750

(904) 488-0062

DAH/asc/gs

9/28/89
PCP:

0001

r

G

8

