 

FILED

Department at Business and Professional Regulation
DEPUTY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

BOARD OF MEDICINE /
CLER A V991
DEPARTMENT OF BUSTNESS AND Q’ 2,3
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION, DATE \ (E: 2;
Petitioner,

-vs— DBPR CASE NUMBER: 89—13466
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0039857
SHYAM BHOJRAJ PARYANI, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came begore the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on Octeher 2,
1993, in Miami, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties
in the above—styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent
Agreement, the documents submitted in support thereof, the
arguments of the parties, and being otherwise advised in the
premises, the Board rejected the Consent Agreement proposed and
offered an amendment at the hearing, which amendment was accepted
without objection by the parties. ’

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and hereby is approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein with the following change:

Paragrph 3 of the Stipulated Disposition is hereby deleted.
No Continuing Medical Education is required.

According1y, the parties shall adhere to and abide by the

terms and conditions of the Consent Agreement as amended.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department of Business and Professional Regulation.

£731
DONE AND ORDERED this day of < aw , 1993.

BOARD OF MEDICINE “

    

IC} R J. CAVALLARO, M.D.
VICE—C {AIR

CERTIFICATE OF SERVIQE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to §h§am
Bhojraj Paryani, M.D., P.O. Box 19732, Jacksonville, Florida
32245, Rhonda B. Boggess, Esquire, 3300 Barnett Center, 50 North
Laura Street, Jacksonville, Florida 32201, and by interoffice
delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney,
Department of Business and Professional Regulation, 1940 North

Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792, at or before

5:00 P.M., this :2/1 day of Q67? 1993.

729M //4v7/=«r‘

 

9. Patient #1 went without pain for approximately nine (9)
months and then began to have pain again.

10. On or about March 7, 1985, Dr. Robert C. Nuss, a
gynecologic oncologist, performed an exploratory laparotomy to
ascertain the cause of Patient #1's continued pain. ﬁzring this
procedure, Dr. Nuss excised a specimen of the vaginal apex for
pathologic examination.

11. The pathologic examination revealed focal epithelial
thickening and mild chronic inflammation. The pathology report
fails to mention any indication of ectopic ovarian tissue..

12. On or about April 29, 1986, per request of Dr. Davis,
Patient #1 again presentéd to Respondent to receive““further
radiotherapy due to Patient #1’5 continued pelvic pain. A pelvic
examination by Respondent revealed a nodule in the left apex of the
vaginal cuff measuring approximately 3x3 centimeters. Respondent
then gave an impression of remnant ovarian syndrome with ectopic
ovarian tissue in the vagina and advised further radiotherapy by
use of a vaginal cesium implant again.

13. Respondent should have obtained a biopsy of the nodule
before advising further radiotherapy, which can cause and_aggravate
vaginal stenosis, vaginal dryness, and rectal irritation. without
performing a biopsy, Respondent could not confirm the histology of
the nodule.

14. From on or about May 12, 1986, to on or about May 15,

1986, Respondent treated Patient #1 with a vaginal cesium implant

consisting of 41.6 milligram radium equivalent for approximately
seventy—two (72) hours.

15. Patient #1 developed vaginal drynessjdyspareunia and
rectal bleeding as a result of the two (2) radiation therapies.
A subsequent treating physician diagnosed Patient #1 witﬁ‘radiation
proctitis and vaginitis.

16. Respondent inappropriately administered radiotherapy to
Patient #1 by using a vaginal cesium implant cylinder from on or
about May 19, 1984 to May 31, 1984 and from on or about May 12,
1986 to May 15, 1986.

17. From on or about May 12, 1986 to May 15, 1986, Reséondent
inappropriately administered radiotherapy to Patient #1 without
obtaining a biopsy of the vaginal nodule to fully ascertain its
histology.

18. Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances in that Respondent inappropriately treated Patient
#1 with a vaginal cesium implant cylinder to Patient #1 on two (2)
occasions; and failed to obtain a biopsy of Patient #1;s vaginal
nodule on the second occasion.

19. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, in that he is guilty of gross or

repeated malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that

level of care, skill, and treatment which. is recognized by a

reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under
similar conditions and circumstances.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent’; license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this 022 day of , 1992.

 

  

. McPherson,
ef Medical Attorney

 

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Chief Medical Attorney

Department of Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750
Florida Bar #788643

CJR/dpb/adb

PCP: March 23, 1992

McEwen, Kaiser, Dauer

 

FLORIDA BOARD OF MEDICINE

 

 

 

Secrdmy

' DEPARTMENT op BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION ””3355?“
_ - -l - 7 George Stuart

October 29, 1993

FLORIDA BOARD OF MEDICINE
1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Horida 32399-0770

Telephone(904>433-0595 Shyam B. Paryani, M.D.

P.0. Box 19732
FuadS.Ashkar,MDr Jacksonville, Florida 32245
Miazm,Flonda

Richard James Cavallaro, MD
Napla, Florida
Dear Dr . Paryan1 1
Edward A. Dauer, M.D.
Fon Lauderdale. Honda

MaribelDiblanIJ-D‘ Pursuant to the Final Order of the Board dated October
C°mmablesﬂmda 27, 1993 (copy enclosed), you were required to pay an
EmilmEchevarna,M.D. administrative fine.

Tampa/Honda

GeorgesA.El-Bahr1,M.D. This will serve to acknowledge fulfillment of all
Jacksonvnlle,Honda requirements as set forth in the Final Order.

Martin I. Fenwick, M.D.

Cmalspnmnmda If you have any questions, please feel free to contact

this office at (904) 488-0595.
Mary Kathryn Garrett, M.D.

l , ' ~
Orando Honda $1ncerely,

John w Glotielty, M11 /’ 1 , ‘ j .

Lakeland, Flonda D Q, : 3 U \

Louis c, Murray, M D, f ' . , /
Cry al A. Grlffl

Orlando, Flonda
Professional Regulation Specialist II

Cecile M, Scoon
Panama ery, Honda
/ 09
Margaret S. Skinner, MD
West Palm Beach, Hon'da
Herbert Fred Vam Enc losure

Tallahassee, Florida

GaryvamcmeLM_D_ cc: Rhonda B. Boggess, Esqlnre

Tallahassee, Honda

Abraham L. Woods, MD,
Sebrlng Flonda

 

Wm

Mann M Hams

DIVISION or- MEDICAL QUALITY ASSURANCE
NORTHWOOD CENTRE - 1940 NORTH MONROE STREET - TALLAHASSEE, FLORIDA 32399-0770

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
vs. DPR Case No. 89-13466
DOAH Case No. 93-2224
SHYAM B. PARYANI, M.D.,

Respondent.

CONSENT AGREEMENT

Shyam B. Paryani, M.D., referred to as the “Respondent", and
the Department of Professional Regulation, referredmmtek as
"Department", stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and
to the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred
to as "Board", incorporating the stipulated Facts and stipulated
Disposition in this matter.

STIPULATED FACTS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed
physician in the State of Florida having been issued license
number ME 0039857. '

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department of properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules
enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the
Administrative Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit "A".

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of

fact contained in the Administrative Complaint.

STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as licensed
physician, he is subject to the provisions of Chapter 455 and
458, Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Depagtment and
the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute violations
of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the
Administrative Complaint.

STIPULATED DISPOSITION

1. FUTURE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the future
violate Chapters 455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto.

2. Egyg. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in
the amount of $4,500 against the Respondent. The fine shall be
paid by the Respondent to the Board of Medicine within 180 days
of its imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. CONTINUING MEDICAL EDUCATION. Within one (1) year of
the filing of the Final Order incorporating the terms of this
Agreement, Respondent shall attend thirty—five (35) hours of
Category I Continuing Medical Education in an area to be
determined by the Board. Respondent shall submit a written plan
to the Chairman of the Probationer's Committee for approval prior
to the completion of said continuing education hours. The Board

confers authority on the Chairman of the Probationer's Committee

to approve or disapprove said continuing education hours. In

addition, Respondent shall submit documentation in the form of
certified copies of the receipts, vouchers, certificates, or
other papers, such as physician's recognition awards, documenting
completion of these medical education courses within one (1) year
of the entry of the Final Order in this matter. *All such

documentation shall be sent to the Board of Medicine‘ regardless

of whether some or any of such documentation was previously

pgovided during the course of any audit or discussion with

 

counsel for the Department. These hours shall be in addition to

 

those hours required for renewal of licensure. Unless otherwise
approved by the Board, said continuing medical education courses

shall consist of a formal, live lecture format.

4 . QUALITY ASSURANCE CONSULTATION . An independent ,

certified risk manager will review Respondent's current practice
prior to the Board's consideration of this Agreement.
Specifically, this independent consultant shall review each type
of procedure performed by Respondent (including Respondent's
system for confirming diagnoses), the training and duties of
Respondent's medical staff, and Respondent's method of record
keeping. This consultant will prepare a report addressing
Respondent's practice. This report will include any suggested
improvements of the quality assurance of Respondent's practice.
Respondent will submit this report, as well as documentation that
demonstrates his compliance with the suggestions enumerated in

the report, to the Board for consideration in conjunction with

this Agreement.

5. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is
subject to the approval of the Board and the Department. In this
regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing
paragraphs) shall have no force and effect unless a Final Order
incorporating the terms of this Agreement is entereﬁ by the
Board.

6. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting
of the Board where this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in
conjunction with the consideration of this Agreement by the
Board, shall, respond to questions under oath from the Board,
Board Staff or Department Staff. The Respondent shail be
prepared to explain the cirCumstances involved in this matter and
what measures have been taken to prevent a recurrence.

7. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by the Respondent may be used as
direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding;
however, such statements may be used by the Petitioner for
impeachment purposes.

8. Respondent and the Department fully understand that
this joint Agreement and subsequent Final Order incotporatinq
same will in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board
and/or the Department against the Respondent for acts or
omissions not specifically set forth in the Administrative
Complaint attached as Exhibit "A" herein.

9. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent

expressly waives all further procedural steps and expressly

waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise
challenge or contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final
Order of the Board incorporating said Agreement.

10. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, the
parties hereby agree that each party will hear his own attorney's
fees and costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this
matter. Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's fees
or costs from the Department in connection with this matter.

11. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avbiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. in this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials congeyning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the
Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters
by the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board
or any of its members from further participation, consideration

or resolution of these proceedings.

Signed this 3/ 5% day of ﬂ q $1: 3 j‘ , 1993.
C\\ ' (E?‘ éf/j7

Shyam . Paryani,

Before me, personally appeared _(> I ,
whose identity is known to me by \ ,
(type of identification) and who, under oat , acknowledges that

his/her signature appears above.

_ . '8‘!
Swogg to and subscrlbed before me thls day of
éggggfggg , 1993.

Print or type name
SUSAN [.JERRELD

My Commission Expires: NauyPuNk.mmeomeMa
My comm. expires Aug. 2, 1995

90mm. No. cc 125796

APPROVED this 2— day of M, 1993.

George Stu

    

   
   

 

G. McPherson, Jr.
ttorney
Medical Section

B 2 DPR/CONSENT . RGR

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESEIONAL
REGULATION,
PETITIONER,
vs. CASE NO. 8913466
SHYAM B. PARYANI, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

COMES Now the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine agaihst
SHYAM B. PARYANI, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent,"
and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the
practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida Statutes;
Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0039857. Respondent’s last known address is P.O.
Box 19732, Jacksonville, Florida, 32245.

3. From on or about May 18, 1984, to on or about December 19,
1986, Respondent treated Patient #1, a female born on or about
April 15, 1953, for remnant ovarian syndrome.

4. On or about May 16, 1984, Dr. R.M. Davis, a board—

certified gynecologist, referred Patient #1 to Respondent, a board-

1

certified radiologist, to evaluate an area of Patient #1’5 vaginal
cuff, which Dr. Davis opined was an area of remnant ovarian tissue.
Due to Patient #1’s medical history of undergoing exploratory
laparotomies in 1979 and 1981, Dr. Davis opined that another
abdominal procedure should be avoided at all cost. “

5. On or about May 18, 1984, Respondent examined Patient #1
and found remnant ovarian syndrome with ectopic ovarian tissue in
the vagina. Respondent then recommended administering a vaginal
cesium implant cylinder to Patient #1 to dissolve the ovarian
tissue.

6. A vaginal cesium implant cylinder is a cylinder containing
radium, or radium equivalent, which is inserted inside the yagina
for a certain period of time and withdrawn. This provides
radiation treatment lowering the risk of scarring which external
radiation therapy can cause. The distribution of radiation in the
vaginal cylinder is highest in the middle of the cylinder and
lowest at the ends of the cylinder.

7. From on or about May 29, 1984 to on or about May 31, 1984,
Respondent treated Patient #1 with a vaginal cesium implant
consisting of forty (40) milligrams radium equivalent for
approximately forty—eight (48) hours. -

8. The use of a vaginal cesium implant cylinder was
inappropriate in treating Patient #1 because the cylinder treated

the entirety of the vaginal surface but gave a lesser dose of

radiation to the vaginal apex, the area needing the most treatment.

