FILED

apartment of Professional Regulation
AGENCY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL Rg;::;;;6x§:::ZQJL£LW

BOARD OF MEDICINE CLERK“

DATE <;_ {1 C3(

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

 

Petitioner,

DPR CASE NUMBER: 89-11561
—vs- DOAH CASE NUMBER: 90—7906

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0035895
KENT J. NAUMAN, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

This cause came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.57(l)(b)10, Florida Statutes, on April
12, 1991, in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, for the purpose of
considering the Hearing Officer's Recommended Order and
Petitioner's Exceptions to the Recommended Order, (copies of
which are attached hereto as Exhibits A and B, respectively) in
the above—styled cause. Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, was represented by Susan E. Lindgard, Attorney at
Law. Respondent was present and participated in the hearing.

Upon review of the Recommended Order, Petitioner's
Exceptions, the argument of the parties, and after a review of
the complete record in this case, the Board makes the following
findings and conclusions.

B&Epgiqyﬂgawﬂg
l. Petitioner's Exception No. 1 is rejected on the basis

that there is competent substantial evidence to support the

finding of fact at issue. (See p. 73 of the Transcript)

2. Petitioner's Exception No. 2 is granted on the basis
that is argued in the exception. (See Goetz deposition,
p. 11)

3. Petitioner's Exception No. 3 is rejected on the basis
that resolution of the issue raised is not material to the
resolution of the case. However, it is noted that the word
"observed," as used in paragraph 11 of Findings of Fact, should
be changed to the phrase "was aware of" to be accurate.

4. Petitioner's Exception No. 4 is granted in part and
rejected in part. It is granted insofar as it states the lack of
competent substantial evidence for the Hearing Officer's finding
that, "No other axis diagnosis was rendered." In lieu thereof
the Board finds that the accurate statement of fact is, "Dr.
Marks testified with regard to axis I, II, IV, and V. He ruled
out any disorders. The Board finds that Dr. Marks' report was
based not only on his examination of Respondent, but also on his
review of Respondent's writings. The Board rejects, however, the
last sentence of the exception submitted by Petitioner.

5. Petitioner's_Exception No. 5 is granted on the basis
that there is no competent substantial evidence to support the
Hearing Officer's finding that Dr. Marks' conclusion was
mistaken. The Board adopts Petitioner's argument and citations
to the record as support for this ruling.

6. Petitioner's Exception No. 6 is granted to and including
the recommendation that the finding of fact in paragraph 22 be
rejected, based on the argument and citation in the exception.
(See p. 57 of the Transcript). The Board does £93 adopt the

remainder of the last sentence of this exception starting

7. Respondent also practices allopathic- medicine
utilizing the medical skills which he obtained from his formal
medical education and training.

8. In 1987, Respondent was frustrated by his inability
to obtain hospital privileges at local Orlando hospitals. In
response to an advertisement published in a medical journal,
Respondent contacted the Physicians Recovery Network (PRN) for
assistance.

9. Contrary to Respondent's expectations, the PRN did
not assist ReSpondent. According to PRN records, the Respondent
was referred to Dr. Robert Fernandez for psychotherapy. Later,
the PRN referred Respondent‘s case to the Department since it was
unable to compel Respondent to obtain a mental and physical
examination.

10. Respondent did not consider the PRN's efforts to be
helpful since he believes Freudian psychology to be contrary to his
religious beliefs. Moreover, Respondent does not believe he has
a mental impairment requiring treatment.

11. In 1989, Respondent wrote a letter directed to "Dear
Legislator" which outlined Respondent's opinions regarding the
medical profession. In summary, Respondent stated the instances
he observed which indicate that hospital procedures do not afford
constitutional due process to those seeking privileges, fail to
Irequire behavior of a righteous manner, and was "systematically

wicked."

12. At some point subsequent to the letter described in
paragraph 11, the Department attempted to require Responden: to
undergo a psychiatric examination.

13. Ultimately, a circuit court judge directed
Respondent to present for a review. That examination was conducted
by Dr. Marks who spoke with Respondent for approximately one hour
on November 13, 1990.

14. Following his examination of Respondent, Dr. Marks
completed a written report dated November 23, 1990 which he
submitted to the Department. That report stated that Respondent
read aloud from the Bible while he waited in the hospital foyer for
the appointment, smiled to the point of being jocular despite the
seriousness of the examination, spoke in tongues, and was
religiously preoccupied. Dr. Marks' diagnosis of the Respondent
concluded: axis I-schizophrenia, chronic. No other axis diagnosis
was rendered.

15. During the interview with Dr. Marks, Respondent
attempted to explain faith healing and how prayer can be utilized
to heal the sick. Dr. Marks histakenlw concluded that Respondent
utilized faith healing at the clinic were he was employed. The
examples of faith healing given by Respondent were not meant to
exclude allopathic medical practices. Respondent does not believe
one form of healing precludes the use of the other form.

16. Dr. Marks did not review any of Respondentis medical
records nor observe Respondent's treatment of patients at the

medical center.>

UOQQIL.

17. Dr. Marks was not aware of any complaints from
patients regarding Respondent's medical treatment of them.

18. Allegations of malpractice have not been made
against Respondent by anyone.

19. Dr. Marks acknowledged that pastors conduct
televised services to heal people and that such activities are no:
delusional.

20. Additionally, Dr. Marks acknowledged that speaking
in tongues does not, of itself, mean the Speaker is out of touch
with reality.

21. Dr. Marks also acknowledged that faith healing and
the "American medical standard of treatment“ may be compatible.

22. Mr. Powers, the Respondent's roommate, confirmed
that Respondent utilizes "conventional medical treatment" when
treating patients as the situation may require. For example, when
a baby with an ear infection was presented for faith healing at

their home, Respondent immediately prescribed an antibietic for the

child.

23. Respondent is a member of the Orlando Christian
Center which is an independent church with 7,000 members and a
national television ministry. He participates in church
activities, has been trained as a charismatic Christian, and
believes his Christian training helps him effectively treat the
sick. .

24. According to Respondent, when he treats people in

the office he usually does not use Christian faith healing other

6

than the laying on of hands. Because his examination cf pa:ie::s
requires that he touch them, Respondent believes that to he an
automatic means of putting hands on them without saying a word
regarding his religious beliefs. In short, patients receive the

benefit of touching without necessarily knowing it.

25. Respondent does not know of any instance in which he

'caused injury to a patient or failed to correctly treat them.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. The Division of Administrative Hearings has
jurisdiction over the parties to and the subject matter of this
proceeding.

2. In accordance with Section 458.331, Florida Statutes,
the Department may discipline a licensee for violations of that
statute.

3. Section 458.331(1)(s), Florida Statutes, provides,
in part, that a physician may be disciplined for:

Being unable to practice medicine with

reasonable skill and safety to patients by

reason of illness or use of alcohol, drugs,

narcotics, chemicals, or any other type of

material or as a result of any mental or

physical condition.

4. In this case, the Department bears the burden of
establishing, by clear and convincing evidence, that the Respondent
is not fit to practice medicine by reason of his infirmity. That
burden has not been met. The Department has only the benefit of

one, one hour examination conducted by Dr. Marks in which he made

several erroneous assumptions regarding the Respondent: While it

0008 x

is certain that the Respondent believes in faith healing, there is
no evidence from which it could be concluded that Respondent has
abandoned the medical training and treatment which allowed his
licensure. Moreover, the Department has not established that by
practicing his religious beliefs, the Respondent is not fit to
practice medicine With reasonable skill and safety to patients.
Dr. Marks‘ opinion to the contrary was based upon the erroneous
conelusion that Respondent practices faith healing exclusively.
DrI. Marks cited no factual basis for his conclusion that
\s‘chizophrenia was affecting Respondent's judgment. Dr. Marks did
not speak with Respondent's patients nor did he review Respondent's
records. Since he spent bht one hour with Respondent, it is
difficult to conclude anything other than the fact that Respondent
is preoccupied by his religious beliefs. That, of itself, does not
establish impaired judgment to treat patients.

5. Respondent's conduct may be considered socially rude
(reading out loud in a public area), may be perceived to be
religiously eccentric (speaking in tongues, quoting the Bible) , but
to Respondent and members of his faith such conduct is acceptable.
The clear and convincing standard governing these proceedings
requires more to establish a need to suspend this physician's
license.

W
Based upon the foregoing, it is

RECOMMENDED

(’1
r

that the Department of Professional Regulaticn, Eca:d of

Medicine dismiss the administrative complaint against this

Respondent and reinstate his license to practice

medicine.

DONE and ENTERED this £257 cey of February, 1991, in

Tallahassee, Leon County, Florida.

/7.
’7”! .zggAdT/55244swé.
W
Hearing Officer
Division of Administrative
Hearings
The DeSoto Building
1230 Apalachee Parkway

Tallahassee, Florida 32301
(904)488-9675

Filed with the Clerk of the
Division of Administrative
Hearings this 3U: day of
February, 1991.

NOTICE OF RIGHT IO SUBMIT EXCEPTIONS:

All parties have the right to submit written exceptions
:0 this recommended order. All agencies allow each party at least
10 days in which to submit written exceptions. Some agencies allow
a larger period within which to submit written exceptions. You
should contact the agency that will issue the final order in this
case concerning agency rules on the deadline for filina exceptions
to this recommended order. Any exceptions to this recommended

order should be filed with the agency that will issue the final
order in this case.

.' "‘ ’
Uxxe'u.

Copies furnished to:

Susan E. Lindgard

Senior Attorney

Department of Professional
Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street, Ste. 60
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792

Kent J. Nauman
160-3 Springwood Circle
Longw00d, Florida 32750

Jack McRay

General Counsel

Department of Professional
Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792

Dorothy Faircloth,

Executive Director

Board of Medicine

1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792

10

C3

:3

(A

APPENDIX TO CASE NO. 90-7906

RULINGS ON THE PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT SUBMITTED BY THE
DEPARTMENT:

1. Paragraphs 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 12, 13, and 14 are accepted.
2. Paragraph 3 is rejected as contrary to the weight of the
evidence. It is accepted that following receipt of contact frcm

the Respondent (who was responding to an advertisement) the PRN
made the recommendation noted.

3. Paragraph 6 is rejected as recitation of testimony based upon
erroneous factual information.

4. The first sentence of paragraph 7 is rejected as contrary to
the weight of the evidence. The second sentence is accepted as Dr.
Marks' statement of fact as he observed Respondent. The last

sentence is rejected as contrary to the weight of the evidence.
It is clear that Dr. Marks mistakenly concluded Respondent
practiced faith healing to the exclusion of allopathic practices.
The record establishes that is not the case. Moreover, the
sentence inaccurately over simplifies Respondent's explanation of
faith healing.

5. Paragraph 9 is rejected as contrary to the weight of the
evidence.

6. Paragraph 10 is rejected as contrary to the weight of the
evidence. Respondent presented testimony of his religious beliefs,
how faith healing is not adverse to allopathic medicine, and that
members of his faith (like Mr. Powers) believe they are able to
heal as a result of their religious training and beliefs. If he
suffers from a mental illness, there is no indication that illness
has impaired Respondent‘s ability to correctly treat patients.

7. Paragraph 11 is rejected as a recitation of testimony.

8. Paragraph 15 is rejected as argument, irrelevant,-or contrary
to the weight of the evidence. Respondent's informal presentation
was deemed appropriate for a lay litigant given the circumstances
of this case. In fact, Respondent's cross examination of Dr. Marks
was particularly insightful since it was apparent Dr. Marks had
misunderstood many of Respondent's statements during his
examination.

9. Paragraph 16 is rejected as contrary to the weight of the
evidence. Respondent attempted to convince the patient referenced
that she needed additional testing. When the patient refused
testing, Respondent recommended prayer. Eventually, Respondent was
able to convince the patient to go to a specialist. The Department
has not challenged Respondent's medical records or claimed that he
failed to make an appropriate referral.

10. Paragraph 17 is rejected as contrary to the Weight of the
evidence.

11. Paragraph 18 is rejected as argument.

11

08;; ;

RULINGS ON THE PROPOSED FINDINGS op _
RESPONDENT: FACT 5UBMITT;D

None submitted .

12

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT or PROFESSIONAL REGU TION
BOARD OF MEDICINE l L E D

     
 

  

DEPARTMENT or PROFESSIONAL D“M””Wnt°'thsammeegmmmn

REGULATION, AGENCYCLERK
Petitioner, g r

V. "a V,

 

NO. 89-11561
KENT J. NAUMAN, M.D., K

Respondent. DATE w

/
TITIONER’S EXCEPT ONS TO RECOMMENDED ORDER

 

COMES Now the Department of Professional Regulation, the
Petitioner, and files these exceptions to the Recommended Order
issued on February 25, 1991, in this proceeding. Accordingly, the
Petitioner timely and respectfully requests the Board of Medicine
to reject the recommendations of the Hearing Officer as set forth
herein and adopt the recommendations as provided below.

1. The Hearing Officer's finding of fact at page 4, paragraph
8 is not supported by competent substantial evidence as required

by FLA.STAT. section 120.57(1)(b)(10)(1989).:/ In fact,

1/ Subsequently, when indicating that the Hearing Officer’s
findings of fact are not supported by competent substantial
evidence, the undersigned counsel is referencing FLA.5TAT. section
120.57(1)(b)(10)(1989). Pursuant to FLA.STAT. section
120.57(1)(b)(10)(1989) it is provided:

The agency may adopt the recommended order as the final
order of the agency. The agency in its final order may
reject or modify the conclusions of law and interpretation
of administrative rules in the recommended order, but may
not reject or modify the findings of fact unless the agency
first determines from a review of the complete record, and
states with particularity in the order, that the findings
of fact were not based upon competent substantial evidence or
that the proceedings on which the findings were based did not
comply with essential requirements of law. The agency may
accept the recommended penalty in a recommended order, but
may not reduce or increase it without a review of the complete
record and without stating with particularity its reasons
therefor in the order, by citing to the record in justifying
the action....

OCL'L '

with ". . . and the Board finds Dr. Nauman has delusions about
himself. . . ."

7. Petitioner's Exception No. 7 is granted based on the
reasons stated therein. The record does not support a finding
that Dr. Marks had 92;! the benefit of one, one hour examination
or that he made erroneous assumptions.

8. Petitioner's Exception No. 8 is granted for the reasons
stated therein.

9. Petitioner's Exception No. 9 is rejected on the basis
that it is not supported by the record.

10. Petitioner's Exception No. 10 is granted based on the
reason stated therein and the Board's rulings on the preceding
exceptions.

FINDINGS OF FACT

1. Findings of fact set forth in the Recommended Order are
amended to conform with the rulings on Petitioner's Exceptions
and, as amended, are approved and adopted and incorporated
herein.

2. There is competent substantial evidence to support the

findings of fact of the Board.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. The Board has jurisdiction of this matter pursuant to
Section 120.57(1), Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.
2. The conclusions of law set forth in the Recommended
Order are rejected and the following conclusions of law are

adopted in lieu thereof:

to the contrary, the record reflects through Dr. NaUman's testimony
that he contacted the Physicians Recovery Network (hereinafter
"PRN") for help with his impairment. (Transcript,15). There is no
competent substantiai evidence linking Dr. Nauman's frustration
with his inability to obtain hospital privileges to his contacting
PRN as indicated by the Hearing Officer.

2. The Hearing Officer’s finding of fact at page 4,
paragraph 9 is not supported by competent substantial evidence.
There is no evidence indicating that PRN did not assist Dr. Nauman.
In fact, Dr. Nauman was referred to Dr. Robert Fernandez tor
psychotherapy. (Petitioner's Exhibit #3). It is recommended that
the Board find that PRN attempted to help Dr. Nauman prior to
referring the case to the Department.

3. The Hearing Officei's finding of fact at page 4,
paragraph 11 is not supported by competent substantial evidence.
The Hearing Officer's finding of fact infers that Dr. Nauman, in
his letter to the "Legislator", was merely finding fault with
hospital procedure with regard to providing for constitutional due
process. In fact, the record reflects that Dr. Nauman’s October
7, 1989, letter to the "Legislator" exhibits the delusional thought
disorder diagnosed by the examining psychiatrist, Neville S. Marks,
M.D. (Respondent's Exhibit #1, Petitioner’s Exhibit #3). Dr.
Nauman refers to the fact that "[t]he hospital secrecy and self
governance laws block standard constitutional law from thwarting
evil." He outlines three (3) cese examples in the letter. First,

he indicates that Dr. Lieberman "was an excellent, popular, private

OB-GYN with a large practice", had raped a patient, had his license
revoked, but “had hospital privileges to the end". The second case
example indicates that "Angel Color, Pediatric Gastroenterologist
at Georgetown Medical Center in Washington, D.C." was "bizarre",
decorated his office with pictures of naked women, were sandals to
work, wore cheap, poor clothing, collected "Pre-Columbian art",

("devil spirit idols stolen from graves and smuggled out of South
American countries against the laws of those nations") and
displayed it in glass cases in his living room. Dr. Nauman further
stated that Dr. Color disallowed I.V. fluids to be given to a baby
with massive chronic diarrhea until the baby was in shock,
diagnosed milk protein allergy and allowed yogurt to be given to
the baby, "[h]e was very well respected just as it is written: Isa
5:20 ‘WOe unto them that call evil good and good evil ...' and Luke
6:26 ‘WOe unto you, when all men speak well of you! for so did
their fathers to the false prophets’". The third case example
indicates "[t]he Pediatric Boards also work the opposite calling
good bad and bad good." Dr. Nauman went on to explain in the third
exampie that when he studied for the boards he failed and when he
did not study for the boards he passed, and he tied this to the
verse he cites as “Isa 5:20“ and to "large verdicts against
excellent physicians who kee‘ getting sued for malpractice". Last,
Dr. Nauman outlines legislative steps which would make for
“righteous godly constitutional medical governance". (Respondent’s
Exhibit #1). There is no competent substantial evidence to support

the Hearing Officer’s finding of fact that Dr. Nauman, in his

C?
C.)
u
1

October 7, 1989, letter, "stated the instances he observed which
indicate that hospital procedures do not afford constitutional due
process to those seeking privileges, fail to require behavior of
a righteous manner, and was_‘systematica11y wicked’". (Recommended
Order, 4). It is recommended that this finding of fact be
rejected, and the Board find Dr. Nauman has delusions about
himself, different from what is average in the community, which
allow him to believe he can treat physical illnesses with his
ability to cure patients with the specialness bestowed upon him
through the blood of Jesus Christ; that this treatment is not
consistent with the community standard; and that this implies that
Dr. Nauman has a mental illness which will impair his ability to
function as a physician. (Transcript, 28-9.)

4. The Hearing Officer’s finding of fact at page 5,
paragraph 14 is not supported by competent substantial evidence.
The Hearing Officer found that no other axis diagnosis was rendered
by Dr. Marks other than axis I - schizophrenia. To the contrary,
Dr. Marks testified that he believed axis I to be the aspect mOSt
affecting Dr. Nauman's capabilities as a physician in terms of Dr.
Nauman's judgement and ability to treat patients. Moreover, Dr.
Marks testified with regard to axis II, III, IV, and V. He ruled
out any disorders. (Transcript, 27-8). Thus, the Hearing Officer’s
finding of fact that no other axis diagnosis was rendered other
than axis I is not only not supported by competent substantial
evidence, but it is clearly erroneous. It is recommended that this

finding of fact be rejected, and the Board find that Dr. Nauman is

.“"' .,,, .

L s‘:\ _.

unable to practice medicine with skill and safety to patients based
upon the psychiatric examination performed by a Board approved
psychiatrist, the testimony and evidence presented at the hearing,
and Dr. Nauman’s appearance and presentation at the hearing.

5. The Hearing Officer's finding of fact at page 5,
paragraph-is is not supported by competent substantial evidence.
The Hearing Officer found that Dr. Marks mistakenly concluded that
Dr. Nauman utilized faith healing at the clinic where Dr. Nauman
was employed. This, in fact, was not a mistaken conclusion. This
conclusion was confirmed during the administrative hearing. Dr.
Nauman testified that he uses faith healing normally in extreme
cases in his office. Dr. Nauman explained that he last used faith
healing on a 55-year old woman who was ultimately diagnosed as
having cancer. (Transcript, 65). Dr. Marks did not mistakenly
conclude that Dr. Nauman utilized faith healing at the clinic where
Dr. Nauman was employed. Moreover, Dr. Marks did not assume Dr.
Nauman was using faith healing exclusively to treat patients. Dr.
Marks acknowledged that because of Dr. Nauman’s impairment, Dr.
Nauman is not capable of considering the possibility that he could
harm someone by his medical practice. (Transcript, 24-5.) After
his evaluation of Dr. Nauman, Dr. Marks concluded that Dr. Nauman
is out of contact with reality, deluded with being endowed with
special powers, religiously preoccupied, has poor judgement, and
no insight into his illness and therefore, no motivation to seek
treatment. Further, Dr. Marks concluded that Dr. Nauman is

confusing his religious beliefs with his medical knowledge in

treating physically ill patients, and that Dr. Nauman believes he
has special God given powers to cure viral illnesses and organic
conditions. Based on these conclusions, among others, Dr. Marks
opined that Dr. Nauman is presently unable to practice medicine
with skill and safety to patients. (Petitioner’s Exhibit #3). Dr.
Marks was accepted by the Hearing Officer as an expert in the field
of psychiatry. (Transcript, 19). There was no evidence submitted
to rebut Dr. Marks’ expert opinion. Therefore, it is recommended
that the Hearing Officer’s finding of fact be rejected and that Dr.
Marks' opinion be accepted as conclusive.

6. The Hearing Officer's finding of fact at page 6,
paragraph 22 is not supported by competent substantial evidence.
The Hearing Officer found that Dr. Nauman's roommate, Michael
Powers, confirmed that Dr. Nauman utilized conventional medical
treatment and provided the example of a baby with an ear infection
being prescribed an antibiotic. Mr. Powers has no medical
education. (Transcript, 59). Mr. Powers can not provide competent
substantial evidence regarding Dr. Nauman's medical practice or
regarding Dr. Nauman's ability to practice medicine simply because
Mr. Powers has no basis, no education, and no expertise upon which
to base an evaluation or opinion. The Hearing Officer's reliance
on Mr. Powers’ testimony regarding Dr. Nauman's practice is not
supported by competent substantial evidence. It is recommended
that this finding of fact by the Hearing Officer be rejectedjland
the Board find Dr Nauman has delusions about himself, different

from what is average in the community, which allow him to believe

he can treat physical illnesses with his ability to cure patients
with the specialness bestowed upon him through the blood of Jesus
Christ; that this treatment is not consistent with the community
standard; and that this implies that Dr. Nauman has a mental
illness which will impair his ability to function as a physician;
(Transcript, 28-9.)

7. The Hearing Officer erred in her conclusions of law
at page 7, paragraph 4 wherein she stated the Department has not
met the burden of presenting clear and convincing evidence that Dr.
Nauman "is not fit to practice medicine by reason of his
infirmity“. (Recommended Order, 7). The Hearing Officer continued
by stating, “the Respondent has only the benefit of one, one hour
examination conducted by Dr. Marks in which is made several
erroneous assumptions regarding the Respondent". (Recommended
Order, 7). Based upon the Petitioner’s previous exceptions as
stated above, it follows that Dr. Marks clearly did not make aﬂx
erroneous assumptions regarding Dr. Nauman, nor Dr. Nauman's
practice of medicine.

8. The Hearing Officer erred in her conclusions of law
at page 8, paragraph 4 wherein she concluded that "there is no
evidence from which it could be concluded that Respondent has
abandoned the medical training and treatment which allowed his
licensure. Moreover, the Department has not established that by
practicing his religious beliefs, the Respondent is not fit to
practice medicine with reasonable skill and safety to patients."

(Recommended Order, 8). To the contrary, the Department is not

U »_l

attempting to establish that by practicing his religious beliefs,
Dr. Nauman is unable to practice medicine with skill and safety.
The Department’s position is that there has been a violation of the
Medical Practice Act by virtue of Dr. Nauman's mental impairment.
(Transcript, 5-6). Moreover, the Board need not wait for a
physician to engage in gross malpractice before it acts to protect
the public interest. a‘or v. De artment of P o essional
BeguiationI Board of Medicine, 531 So. 2d 411 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App.
3rd 1988)(probation, extended for a physician with an alcohol
impairment).

9. The Hearing Officer erred in her conclusions of law
at page 8, paragraph 5 when she stated that members of Dr. Nauman’s
faith believe conduct such as Dr. Nauman's is acceptable. There
is no evidence in the record to support such a finding.

10. The Hearing Officer erred in her recommendation of
dismissal at page 9 of the Recommended Order for the reasons
previously stated.

11. It is recommended that the Board adopt the following
conclusions of law and penalty.

12. The Division of Administrative Hearings has
jurisdiction over the parties and subject matter of this
proceeding, pursuant to FLA.STAT. sections 120.57 and
455.225(1989).

13. Pureuant to FLA.STAT. section 458.331(2)(1989), the
Board of Medicine is empowered te revoke, suspend or otherwise

discipline the license to practice medicine of any physician found

guilty of the acts enumerated in FLA.STAT. section
458.3310.) (1989) .

14. Disciplinary action may be taken pursuant to

FLA.STAT. section 458.331(1)(s)(1989):

Being unable to practice medicine with
reasonable skill and safety to patients

by reason of illness or use of alcohol,
drugs, narcotics, chemicals, or any other
type of material or as a result of any
mental or physical condition. In enforcing
this paragraph, the department shall

have, upon a finding of the secretary

or his designee that probable cause exists
to believe that the licensee is unable

to practice medicine because of the
reasons stated in this paragraph, the
authority to issue an order to compel

a licensee to submit to a mental or
physical examination by physicians
designated by the department.

15. In a disciplinary action such as this proceeding, the
burden is on the Petitioner to establish the facts upon which its
allegations of misconduct are based. Petitioner must prove its

allegations by clear and convincing evidence. Ferris V. Turlingto ,

510 So.2d (Fla. 1937).

16. The Administrative Complaint alleges that Respondent
violatEd FLA.STAT. section 458.331(1)(s)(1989), by being unable to
practice medicine with teasonable skill and safety to patients by
reason of his mental impairment, ie.: Axis 1 Schizophrenia-
Chronic.

17. FLA.STAT. section 458.331(1)(s)(l989) is considered
a rehabilitative statute which does not deal with an issue of guilt

or innocence, but is limited to determinations of fitness to

practice medicine. goedy v. Degt. of Professional Regulation, 463
9

SO.2d 215 (Fla. 1985).

18. Clear and convincing evidence was presented
indicating that the Respondent suffers from a mental illness,
specifically Axis 1 Schizophrenia-Chronic.

19. Clear and convincing evidence was presented by virtue
of Dr. Marks’ examination and subsequent report and testimony, that
the Respondent is unable to practice medicine with reasonable skill
and safety to patients by reason of illness as a result of a mental
condition in violation of FLA.STAT. section 458.331(1)(s)(1989).

20. As to the issue of penalty, great weight should be
given to the fact that the Respondent’s mental illness can
adversely affect his judgement when rendering health care services
to the public. The penalty should protect the public from an
impaired practitioner. Further, great weight should be given to
the fact that FLA.STAT. section 458.331(1)(s)(1989) is
rehabilitative in nature, and not penalf

21. Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and
conclusions of law, it is RECOMMENDED that the Respondent (1) be
found to have violated FLA.STAT. section 458.331(1)(s)(1989), (2)
should have his license to practice medicine suspended until such
time as he can demonstrate to the Board of Medicine that he can
practice medicine with skill and safety to patients, the criteria

_determining practice which is skillful and safe to patients to be
determined by the Board of Medicine, and (3) following the
demonstration to the Board of Medicine that he can practice

medicine with skill and safety to patients, be placed on probation

10

for five years, the terms of which to be determined by the Board
of Medicine.

WHEREFORE, the Department moves the Board to grant
Petitioner's Exceptions to Recommended Order and adopt the

recommended penalty.

spectfully submitted

D

   

Senior Attorney

Florida Bar No. 0650986

Dept. of Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe St., Ste. 60
Tallahassee, F1. 32399—0792
(904) 488—0062

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Petitioner's Exceptions to Recommended Order has been
furnished to Kent J. Nauman, M.D., 160-B Springwood LCircle,
Longwood, Florida 32750 by United States Mail, this )3 — day of

Elargl: , 1991.

0

 

Senior Attorney

SEL/ecs

11

OG__

a. Pursuant to FLA.STAT. Section 458.331(2)(1989), the
Board of Medicine is empowered to revoke, suspend or otherwise
discipline the license to practice medicine of any physician
found guilty of the acts enumerated in FLA.STAT. Section
458.331(1)(1989).

b. Disciplinary action may be taken pursuant to FLA.STAT.
Section 458.331(1)(s) (1939):

Being unable to practice medicine with
reasonable Skill and safety to patients
by reason of illness or use of alcohol,
drugs, narcotics, chemicals, or any other
type of material or as a result of any
mental or physical condition. In enforcing
this paragraph, the department shall

have, upon a finding of the secretary

or his designee that probable cause exists
to believe that the licensee is unable

to practice medicine because of the
reasons stated in this paragraph, the
authority to issue an order to compel

a licensee to submit to a mental or
physical examination by physicians
designated by the department.

c. In a disciplinary action such as this proceeding, the
burden is on the Petitioner to establish the facts upon which its
allegations of misconduct are based. Petitioner must prove its
allegations by clear and convincing evidence. Ferris v.
Turlington, 510 So.2d (Fla. 1987).

d. The Administrative Complaint alleges that Respondent
violated FLA.STA. Section 458.331(1)(s) (1989), by being unable
to practice medicine with reasonable skill and safety to patients

by reason of his mental impairment, ie. Axis 1 Schizophrenia—

Chronic.

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
CASE NO. 8911561
V.

KENT J. NAUMAN, M.D.,

Respondent.

/
ADMLELSIBAIIEE_CQM£LA1EI

COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, (hereinafter "Petitioner"), and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
Kent J. Nauman, M.D., (hereinafter "Respondent“), and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to FLA.STAT. sections 20.30,
455, and 458(1989).:/

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been
issued license number ME 0035895. Respondent's last known
address is 168 Springwood Circle, #8, Longwood, Florida 32750.

3. On or about July 7, 1897, Dr. Nauman telephoned the
staff of the Physicians Recovery Network and complained that the

Department of Professional Regulation was "trying to get his

1/ "FLA.STAT." is the legal citation for Florida
Statutes, the laws of the State of Florida.

license" and had an unsubstantiated case against his prescribing
practices. The Physicians Recovery Network recommended that Dr;
Nauman undergo an evaluation at one of the Board Approved
treatment programs.

4. On or about September 24, 1987, Dr. Nauman called
Physicians Recovery Network and told interviewers he had been
evaluated and was diagnosed with a pararaid syndrome and should
receive up to two (2) years of inpatient treatment.

5. Dr. Naumen refused to participate in the recommended
psychotherapy. Dr. Nauman stated ”I only have a problem with
doctors. I don't have any problems with my fellow man. The
doctors have done this to me so I am going to sell real estate
and not be a doctor anymore because I have no difficulties
dealing with my fellow man. The doctors don‘t want me so I'll
sell real estate."

6. Dr. Nauman attempted to sell real estate and avoided
contact with the Physicians Recovery Network.

7. On or about December 1, 1989, it was confirmed that
Dr. Nauman was practicing medicine in a walk—in clinic in Ocoee,
Florida.

8. On September 10, 1990, the Department filed an Order
Compelling Mental Examination of Dr. Nauman, to be performed by
Dr. Daniel J. Sprehe, a psychiatrist, on September 19, 1990.

9. Dr. Nauman did not appear for the above referenced
examination.

10. Subsequently, on September 28, 1990, the Department

filed a Petition for Enforcement and Summary Procedure in the

Circuit Court of the Ninth Judicial Circuit in Orange County,
asking the Court to render the order to be valid and legal, as
well as requiring Dr. Nauman to appear and be examined by a
physician designated by the Department.

11. On October 31, 1990, the Honorable William C. Gridley
ordered Dr. Nauman to appear and be examined by a physician
designated by the Department.

12. On November 1, 1990, the Department filed an Order
Compelling Mental Examination to be performed by Dr. Neville
Marks, a psychiatrist, on November 13, 1990.

13. On November 21, 1990, it was confirmed that Dr. Nauman
did attend his scheduled appointment.

14. In the evaluation of Dr. Nauman, Dr. Marks reported
that Dr. Nauman is suffering from Axis 1 Schizophrenia (chronic).
Dr. Marks opined that in his professional opinion, Dr. Nauman is
unfit to practice medicine at the present time, and requires
treatment for his illness and reevaluation prior to resuming the
practice of medicine. (Dr. Mark's report is attached).

15. Respondent is unable to practice medicine with
reasonable skill and safety to patients by reason of illness or
use of alcohol, drugs, narcotics, chemicals, or any other type of
material or as a result of any mental or physical condition, in
that Respondent is suffering from Axis I Schizophrenia (chronic).

16. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated FLA.STAT. section 458.331(1)(s)(1989), by being unable

to practice medicine with reasonable skill and safety to patients

by reason of illness or use of alcohol, drugs, narcotics,
chemicals, or any other type of material or as a result of any
mental or physical condition.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent‘s license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this 17+l‘aay of laggiﬂ , 1990.

Larry Gonzalez, Secretary

 

By: Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

FILED

Susan E ' Lindgard Depanmenf of Pro!essional Regulation

Senior Attorney AGENCY CLERK
Florida Bar No. 788643

Dept. of Professional Regulation

1940 N. Monroe Street, Ste. 60 5 QWL/
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792

(904) 488—0062 . CLERK____________________

SEL/JS/ecs DATE Z 911- El‘CIO

PCP: December 14, 1990

.c.
.)
J)
C 3
(7')

e. FLA.STAT. Section 458.331(1)(s) (1989) is considered a
rehabilitative statute which does not deal with an issue of guilt

or innocence, but is limited to determinations of fitness to

practice medicine. Boeqx v. Dept. of Professional Regulation,

 

463 So.2d 215 (Fla. 1985).

f. Clear and convincing evidence was presented indicating
that the Respondent suffers from a mental illness, specifically
axis 1 Schizophrenia-Chronic.

9. Clear and convincing evidence was presented to establish
that Respondent is unable to practice medicine with reasonable
skill and safety to patients by reason of illness as a result of
a mental condition in violation of FLA.STAT. Section
458.331(1)(s) (1989).

3. There is competent substantial evidence to support the
conclusions of law of the Board.

DISPOSITION

Upon a complete review of the record in this case, the Board
determines that the disposition recommended by the Hearing
Officer be rejected because of the Board's changes in the
findings of fact and conclusions of law. Specifically, the Board
has found a violation of Section 458.331(1)(s), Florida Statutes.
As to the issue of penalty, great weight should be given to the
fact that the Respondent's mental illness can adversely affect
his judgement when rendering health care services to the public.
The penalty should protect the public from an impaired
practitioner. Further, great weight should be given to the fact
that FLA.STA. Section 458.331(1)(s)(l989) is rehabilitative in

nature and not penal.

WHEREFORE,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that Respondent's license
to practice medicine in Florida is SUSPENDED until such time as
he appears before the Board and demonstrates that he can practice
medicine with skill and safety to patients, the criteria for
determining practice which is skillful and safe to patients to be
determined by the Board of Medicine. Such demonstration shall
include, but not be limited to, evidence that Respondent has
entered into and is in compliance with a contract with the
Physicians Recovery Network. Upon termination of the suspension
of Respondent's license to practice medicine, Respondent's
license to practice medicine in the State of Florida shall be
placed on PROBATION for a period of at least two years, subject
to the terms and conditions to be set at that time.

This order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department of Professional Regulation.

\

DONE AND ORDERED this (52ng day of ML/ , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

 

ZACHARIA P. ZACHARIAH, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO JUDICIAL REVIEW

A PARTY WHO IS ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THIS FINAL ORDER IS ENTITLED
TO JUDICIAL REVIEW PURSUANT TO SECTION 120.68, FLORIDA STATUTES.
REVIEW PROCEEDINGS ARE GOVERNED BY THE FLORIDA RULES OF APPELLATE
PROCEDURE. SUCH PROCEEDINGS ARE COMMENCED BY FILING ONE COPY OF
A NOTICE OF APPEAL WITH THE AGENCY CLERK OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION AND A SECOND COPY, ACCOMPANIED BY FILING
FEES PRESCRIBED BY LAW, WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL, FIRST
DISTRICT, OR WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL IN THE APPELLATE
DISTRICT WHERE THE PARTY RESIDES. THE NOTICE OF APPEAL MUST BE

FILED WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF RENDITION OF THE ORDER TO BE
REVIEWED.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Kent J.
Nauman, M.D., 160—8 Springwood Circle, Longwood, Florida 32750,
by U.S. Mail to Joyous D. Parrish, Hearing Officer, Division of
Administrative Hearings, The DeSoto Building, 1230 Apalachee
Parkway, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-1550; and by interoffice
delivery to Larry C. McPherson, Jr., Acting Chief Medical
Attorney, Department of Professional Regulation, 1940 North

Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792 at or before 5:00

P.M., this 5%, day of 99_1_ _,
E A'Y' "Tﬁﬁ
M{E§:% 3K2;(¢‘~‘
sf "

(fsf:;7‘>

11 .

  

   

 

Orders/April

NaumanK

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION, BOARD OF MEDICINE,

Petitioner,

vs. Case No. 90-7906

KENT J. NAUHAN,

Respondent.

vvvvvvvvvv

 

RECOMMENDED ORDER

Pursuant to notice, a final hearing was held in the
above-styled case on January 2, 1991, in Orlando, Florida, before
Joyous D. Parrish, a designated hearing officer of the Division of

Administrative Hearings. The parties were represented as follows:

APPEARANCES

For Petitioner: Susan E. Lindgard
Senior Attorney
Department of Professional
Regulation - _
1940 North Monroe Street, Ste. 60
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792

For Respondent: Kent J. Nauman, pro se
160—3 Springwood Circle
Longwood, Florida 32750

§EAEEHEEZ_QE_2§E_1§§EE§
The central issue in this case is whether the Respondent
is guilty of the violation alleged in the administrative complaint;

and, if so, what penalty should be imposed.

C(1"HV'
UU£JUL

PRELIMINARY STATEMENT

This case began on December 6, 1990, When the Department
of Professional Reguletion (Department) entered an emergency order
of suspension which suspended Respondent's license to practice
medicine. Thereafter, the Department filed an administrative
complaint which alleged that Respondent was guilty of violating
Section 458.331(1)(s), {lorida Statutes. More specifically,
the administrative complaint alleged that the Respondent is unable
to practice medicine with reasonable skill and safety to patients
by reason of an illness which is the result of a mental condition.
The Respondent has disputed the allegations and requested a review
of the Department's decision. The case was forwarded to the
Division of Administrative Hearings for formal proceedings on
December 7, 1990.

At the hearing, the Department presented the testimony
of Roger Goetz, the director of the Physicians Recovery Network,
and Neville Marks, a psychiatrist who examined Respohdent. The
Department's exhibits numbered 1 through 3 were admitted' into
evidence. The Respondent testified in his own behalf and presented
the testimony of Michael POWerS. Respondent's exhibits numbered
1 and 2 were admitted into evidence. The transcript of the
proceedings was filed on January 15, 1991. The Department
submitted a proposed recommeheee order on January 25, 1991.
Specific rulings on the proposed findings of fact are included in

the attached appendix.

 

FINDINGS OF FACT

Based upon the testimony of the witnesses and the
documentary evidence received at the hearing, the following
findings of fact are made:

1. The Department is the state agency charged with the
responsibility of regulating the practice of medicine in Florida.

2. The Respondent is a licensed medical doctor in the
State of Florida, having been issued license number ME 0035875.

3. On or about December 6, 1990, Respondent was employed
by a group of family medical centers located in the greater Orlando
area. At that time, the Department issued an order of emergency
suspension and Respondent's license to practice was suspended.

4. The order of emergency suspension was based in part
on a medical examination performed by Dr. Marks, a psychiatrist.

5. At all times material to this case, Respondent
practiced general medicine in a walk-in clinic setting. Respondent
does not currently have hospital privileges but made referrals for
areas of treatment requiring specialties (g;g; surgery, psychiatry,
OB-GYN)_.

6. Respondent is a Christian and believes his religious
tenets paramount to other authorities. Respondent and others
practicing his faith believe in speaking in tongues and faith
healing. Respondent is a member of the Great Commission Army, a
faith healing group, having completee that group's requirements for
membership which included a training course on how to heal the

sick.

C‘.
r\
t

