‘ FiLED

Demmnmr of Professional WW1"
AGENCY CLERK

<’ -
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL (Lijg
BOARD OF MEDICINéffiﬁﬁfglg;:> Oh”’/’,

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

“Mn

Petitioner,
DPR CASE NUMBER: 89—08841
—vs— DOAH CASE NUMBER: 91—6669
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 036704
JAYAPRAKASH KAMATH, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

 

 

This cause came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.57(l)(b)10, Florida Statutes, on October
2, 1992, in Miami, Florida, for the purpose of considering the
Hearing Officer‘s Recommended Order, Respondent's Exceptions to
the Recommended Order, and Petitioner's Response to Respondent's
Exceptions (copies of which are attached hereto as Exhibits A, B,
and C, respectively) in the above—styled cause. Petitioner,
Department of Professional Regulation, was represented by Larry
G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney. Respondent was
present and represented by Bruce D. Lamb, Attorney at Law.

Upon review of the Recommended Order, the argument of the
parties, and after a review of the complete record in this case,
the Board makes the following findings and conclusions.

EEEEENES 0F FAQ!

1. Findings of fact set forth in the Recommended Order are

approved and adopted and incorporated herein.

2. There is competent substantial evidence to support the

findings of fact.

CQNCLLJSEQi-‘iﬂﬁﬂ

l. The Board has jurisdiction of this matter pursuant to
Section l20.57(1), Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. The conclusions of law set forth in the Recommended
Order are approved and adopted and incorporated herein.

3. There is competent substantial evidence to support the
conclusions of law.

RULINGS 0N EXCEPTIONS

Respondent filed two exceptions to the Hearing Officer's
Recommended Findings of Fact. The Board considered each
exception and determined that the Hearing Officer‘s Recommended
Findings of Fact are supported by competent substantial evidence
in the record. Therefore, Respondent's exceptions are REJECTED.

PENALTY

Upon a complete review of the record in this case, the Board
determines that the penalty recommended by the Hearing Officer be
AMENDED. WHEREFORE,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that Respondent shall pay
an administrative fine in the amount of $2,000.00 to the Board of
Medicine, Department of Professional Regulation, within 30 days
of the date this Final Order is filed.

During the next 12 months Respondent shall perform 50 hours
of community service. Community service shall consist of the
delivery of medical services directly to patients without fee or
cost to the patient for the good of the people of the State of
Florida. Such community service shall be performed outside the

physician’s regular practice setting.

diameter, in his abdomen just below the renal arteries. The
aneurysm was readily apparent on the X-rays, yet Chase did not
report it to either the Respondent or to his partner, Sreenath.
The radiologist either did not contact Dr. Chase to point out to
him that the report of Chases’s "wet read" of the X—rays omitted
the aneurysm or, if he did, Chase did not relay this information
to the Respondent or his partner. The radiologist’s written
report, stating that the X—rays revealed the large aneurysm, was
sent to Chase, not to the Respondent, and Chase did not relay the
information in it to the Respondent or his partner.

9. If the Respondent had known about the aneurysm, he
would have considered the aneurysm to be the patient’s most
serious medical concern. He might not have accepted the patient
or, if he did, he probably would have brought a vascular surgeon
into the case and had the vascular surgeon, or perhaps a
cardiologist, closely monitor the patient for possible leaking or
dissecting or rupture of the aneurysm. The Respondent also would
have had to give consideration to whether the aneurysm was a
cause of the patient’s abdominal pain.

10. In addition to treating the aneurysm as the
patient’s most serious medical concern, giving consideration to
whether the aneurysm was a cause of the patient’s abdominal pain,
the Respondent would have had to give consideration to altering
his diagnosis for the patient had he reviewed the x-rays or the
radiologist report, or had spoken with the radiologist. In
addition to showing the existence of the aneurysm, the x—rays
indicated that the patient technically may not have been

impacted. (The gas pattern was non—specific.)

7 L 1‘1. T

11. with respect to this patient, the Respondent
practiced medicine below that level of care, skill and treatment
which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physicians as
being acceptable under similar conditions and circumstances
(below the standard of care) in that he did not either personally
review the X—rays on the patient, read or have reported to him
the contents of the radiologist’s report, or talk to the
radiologist. Instead, he relied totally on the emergency room
physician’s "wet read." As a result, the Respondent’s diagnosis
of ”fecal impaction" may not have been correct, and he did not
give proper consideration to the aneurysm. However, except for
the failure regarding the X—rays, the DPR otherwise did not prove
that it was below the standard of care for the Respondent, who
was treating the patient for fecal impaction, to discharge the
patient without seeing him on the morning of August 2/ 1988,
based on the nurse’s report to the Respondent.

12. Although it was below the standard of care for the
Respondent not to either read the X—rays himself or obtain the
radiologist’s definitive interpretation, it was reasonable for
the Respondent to expect that the emergency room physician would
have told him, and noted in the "ER sheet," that the patient he
was being referred had an aneurysm of the kind and size of the
one the patient had in this case. Even if the emergency doctor
had not initially communicated to the Respondent the existence of
the aneurysm, either directly or through the "ER sheet,“ it was
reasonable for the Respondent to expect that, in the normal

course, the radiologist reviewing the X—rays would have noted

that, according to the "ER sheet," the ER doctor “missed" the
aneurysm and would have contacted the ER physician to bring this
to his attention, and that the ER doctor then would have
contacted the Respondent to advise him of the omission.

13. The patient did not experience abdominal pain
after his discharge from Morton Plant, but he began to experience
back and groin pain. The aneurysm was becoming symptomatic. The
patient’s symptoms markedly worsened in the early morning hours
of August 4, 1988. The patient’s wife had him taken to the
emergency room at HCA New Port Richey Hospital at approximately
half past midnight. The patient was confused, and was
complaining of pain in the back and groin area. His blood sugars
were three times normal. He was diagnosed preliminarily in the
emergency room as having out—of—control diabetes and confusion
and as being near sycope. No X-rays were taken in the emergency
room at New Port Richey Hospital, and no information was obtained
from Morton Plant Hospital. Because the patient and his wife did
not know about the aneurysm, they were unable to report it when
the emergency room physician took the patient’s history.

14. The patient was admitted to New Port Richey
Hospital at approximately 2:30 a.m. on August 4, 1988. However,
the admitting physician did not see the patient or order
diagnostic medical imaging at that time. The admitting physician
saw the patient at approximately 9:00 a.m., and ordered X—rays
and a CAT scan.

15. Before the X—rays or CT scan were taken, at

approximately ten o’clock, the patient suffered an acute

hypotensive event while in his hospital room. An emergency
abdominal sonogram was ordered, and it was determined that the
patient was suffering from the rupture of the abdominal aortic
aneurysm (the same one that was evident on the X—rays taken at
Morton Plant). Surgery was attempted to resect the ruptured
aneurysm. The patient was a poor candidate for surgery of that
kind due to his age and other health factors. The patient died
on August 6, l988.

16. If the patient knew of the aneurysm, it is likely
that his treatment on August 4, 1988, would have been far
different. First, when the aneurysm became symptomatic, they
probably would have contacted the vascular surgeon, who would
have been on the case already, either immediately or on arrival
at the emergency room. The aneurysm would have been closely
monitored from the time of arrival at the hospital, and the
vascular surgeon would have been prepared for surgery when
indicated.2 At the very least, the patient and his wife probably
would have reported the aneurysm during the taking of a history
in the emergency room at HCA New Port Richey Hospital, and the
emergency room surgeon could have immediately taken appropriate
steps, such as contacting a vascular surgeon and immediately
ordering appropriate diagnostic medical imaging.3

It is quite possible, due to the patient's poor
surgical status, that surgery to repair the aneurysm still would
have been delayed until it ruptured. But it also is possible
that surgery would have been initiated before the rupture in
light of the marked and rapidly increasing symptoms being
experienced by the patient.

3 As pointed out by the Respondent in his defense, it

may well also have been below the standard of care for the ER
physician, and the admitting physician, at HCA New Port Richey

10 L} w .. ‘3 ,_ u.

17. The Respondent did not dictate admission notes for
the patient until August 17, 1988. The Respondent did not

dictate discharge notes.

18. The DPR did not prove that it was below the
standard of care for the Respondent to delay the dictation of
admission notes or for him not to prepare a discharge summary for
a patient in the hospital on a 23-hour basis.

19. The DPR also did not prove that the Respondent
failed to keep written medical records justifying the course of
treatment of the patient.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. In this proceeding, the burden is on the
Petitioner, the Department of Professional Regulation, to prove
the charges in the Administrative Complaint by clear and
convincing evidence. Ferris v. Turlington, 510 So. 2d 292 (Fla.
1987).

2. Section 458.331, Fla. Stat. (1991), provides in
pertinent part:

(1) The following acts shall constitute

grounds for which the disciplinary actions
specified in subsection (2) may by taken:

ir ir ir

(m) Failing to keep written medical
records justifying the course of treatment of
the patient, including, but not limited to,
patient histories; examination results; test
results; records of drugs prescribed,
dispensed or administered; and reports of
consultations and hospitalizations.

3 Cont. Hospital not to have ordered x—rays at the earliest

opportunity, perhaps on stat basis and that their failure to do
so also caused delays in appropriate care for the patient. But
those issues were not fully litigated and, in any event, other

failures would not excuse the Respondent’s failures.

ll

1! 1! 1!

(t) Being guilty of gross or repeated
malpractice or the failure to practice
medicine with that level of care, skill and
treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable
under similar conditions and circumstances.

* i i
(2) when the board finds any person guilty
of any of the grounds set forth in subsection
(1), . . . it may enter an order imposing one
or more of the following penalties:

1i i i

(b) Revocation or suspension of a license.

(c) Restriction of practice.

(d) Imposition of an administrative fine
not to exceed $5,000 for each count or
separate offense.

(e) Issuance of a reprimand.

(f) Placement of the physician on
probation for a period of time and subject to
such conditions as the board may specify

kg; Issuance of a letter of concern.

3. As to paragraph (t) of Section 458.33l(l), the DPR
charges in essence: (1) that the Respondent should have either
personally looked at the patient's X—rays, reviewed the
radiologist's report, or talked to the radiologist; (2) that the
Respondent should have seen the patient prior to discharge; and
(3) that the Respondent took too long to dictate his admission
notes.4

4. It is clear that the health care system failed the

patient in this case. The Respondent did not know of, and no one

4 The DPR also charges that the Respondent should have

followed a different course of treatment, including referring the
case to a vascular surgeon, and should have told the patient,
certainly before the patient left Morton Plant Hospital, that he
had an abdominal aneurysm. But there is no reason to think the
Respondent would not have done so had he known about the
aneurysm.

12

ever advised the patient of, the presence of a large aortic
aneurysm near the patient’s renal arteries that was obvious on X-
rays taken in the Morton Plant Hospital emergency room. As a
result, the appropriate course of treatment was not followed.

Nor was the appropriate course of diagnosis and treatment
followed at the HCA New Port Richey Hospital. The Respondent, in
his defense, blames it all on others involved in the delivery of
health care to the patient. The issue is the extent to which the
Respondent, as opposed to just others, was at fault.

5. As found in Finding of Fact 11, with respect to
this patient, the Respondent practiced medicine below that level
of care, skill and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physicians as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances (below the standard of care) in that
he did not either personally review the X-rays on the patient,
read or have reported to him the contents of the radiologist's
report, or talk to the radiologist. Instead, he relied totally
on the emergency room physician’s "wet read." As a result, the
Respondent’s diagnosis of "fecal impaction" may not have been
correct, and he did not give proper consideration to the
aneurysm. However, except for the failure regarding the X—rays,
the DPR otherwise did not prove that it was below the standard of
care for the Respondent, who was treating the patient for fecal
impaction, to discharge the patient without seeing him on the
morning of August 2, 1988, based on the nurse’s report to the
Respondent.

6. As found in Finding of Fact 18, DPR also did not

prove that it was below the standard of care for the Respondent

13 “f

to delay the dictation of admission notes or for him not to
prepare a discharge summary for a patient in the hospital on a
23—hour basis.

7. As to paragraph (m) of Section 458.33lﬁl), as found
in Finding of Fact 19, the DPR did not prove that the Respondent
failed to keep written medical records justifying the course of
treatment of the patient. Cf. F.A.C. Rule 2lM-27.003. Cf. also
Breesmen v. Degt. of Prof. Reg;, 567 So. 2d 469 (Fla. lst DCA
1990).

8. Based on the penalty guidelines set out in F.A.C.
Rule 21M-20.001, the appropriate recommended penalty range for
one count of violating Section 458.331(l)(t) would be from two
years probation to revocation, and an administrative from $250 to
$5,000.5 Aggravating and mitigating factors are set out in
F.A.c. Rule 21M-20.00l(3).

RECOI‘D‘IENDATION

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions
of Law, it is recommended that the Board of Medicine enter a
final order: (1) finding the Respondent, Jayaprakash Kamath,
M.D., guilty of one count of violating Section 458.331(l)(t), but
dismissing the other count of the Administrative Complaint; (2)

reprimanding him; and (3) fining him $2,000.

5 The Petitioner’s Proposed Recommended Order, cites
F.A.C. Rule 2lM—37.00l, but that rule does not seem to apply.

\..‘,\_,__.,,

14

'W Vﬂ_

RECOMMENDED this erZ day of July, 1992, in

Tallahassee, Florida.

   
   

;ring Offi er
ision of h uinistrative Hearings
e DeSoto Ba lding

1230 Apalachee Parkway

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-1550
(904) 488—9675

  
 

Filed with the Clerk of the

Division of Adm' iaggative
Hearings this (g7 day of
July, 1992.

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO SUBMIT EXCEPTIONS

ALL PARTIES HAVE THE RIGHT TO SUBMIT TO THE BOARD OF MEDICINE
WRITTEN EXCEPTIONS TO THIS RECOMMENDED ORDER. ALL AGENCIES ALLOW
EACH PARTY AT LEAST TEN DAYS IN WHICH TO SUBMIT WRITTEN
EXCEPTIONS. SOME AGENCIES ALLOW A LARGER PERIOD WITHIN WHICH TO
SUBMIT WRITTEN EXCEPTIONS. YOU SHOULD CONSULT WITH THE BOARD OF
MEDICINE CONCERNING ITS RULES ON THE DEADLINE FOR FILING
EXCEPTIONS TO THIS RECOMMENDED ORDER.

 

15

\a-Ju'wLI

COPIES FURNISHED:

Francesca Plendl, Esquire

Senior Attorney

DepPrtment of Professional
Regulation

Northwood Centre

1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792

Bruce D. Lamb, Esquire

Shear, Newman, Hahn & Rosenkranz, ?.A.
201 East Kennedy Boulevard

Suite 1000

Tampa, Florida 33601

Dorothy Faircloth

Executive Director

Northwood Centre

1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792

Jack MCRay, Esquire

General Counsel

Department of Professional
Regulation

Northwood Centre

1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792

Recommended Order, Case No. 91—6669

16

Respondent shall receive a LETTER OF CONCERN as set forth in

Section 458.33l(2)(g), F.S.
This order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department of Professional Regulation.

DONE AND ORDERED this Lib day of @6924 , 1992.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

13mg

ZACHARIAH P. ZACHARIAH, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

NOTICE OF R;GHT T0 JUDICIAL REVIEW

A PARTY WHO IS ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THIS FINAL ORDER IS ENTITLED
TO JUDICIAL REVIEW PURSUANT TO SECTION 120.68, FLORIDA STATUTES.
REVIEW PROCEEDINGS ARE GOVERNED BY THE FLORIDA RULES OF APPELLATE
PROCEDURE. SUCH PROCEEDINGS ARE COMMENCED BY FILING ONE COPY OF
A NOTICE OF APPEAL WITH THE AGENCY CLERK OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION AND A SECOND COPY, ACCOMPANIED BY FILING
FEES PRESCRIBED BY LAW, WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL, FIRST
DISTRICT, OR WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL IN THE APPELLATE
DISTRICT WHERE THE PARTY RESIDES. THE NOTICE OF APPEAL MUST BE

FILED WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF RENDITION OF THE ORDER TO BE
REVIEWED.

APPENDIX TO RECOMMENDED ORDERLLCASE NO. 91-6669

 

To comply with the requirements of Section 120.59(2),
Fla. Stat. (1991), the following rulings are made on the parties’
proposed findings of fact:

Petitioner’s Preposed Findings of Fact.

1.'15, Accepted and incorporated.

16.-17. Accepted and incorporated to the extent
necessary.

18.-19. Accepted and incorporated.

20.—21. Accepted and incorporated to the extent not
subordinate or unnecessary.

22. Rejected as not proven and as contrary to facts
found.

23. Accepted but unnecessary and subordinate to facts
contrary to those found.

24. Rejected as not proven and as contrary to facts
found.

25. Accepted and incorporated.

26. Dr. Wu's purpose was not clear from the evidence,
but otherwise accepted and incorporated to the extent not
subordinate or unnecessary.

27.-30. Accepted and incorporated.

31. Accepted and incorporated. See Finding of Fact
16.

32.-33. Rejected in part and accepted and incorporated
in part, as in part subordinate to facts found and in part

subordinate to facts contrary to those found.

17 ,.,

34. Accepted and incorporated.

35,-36. Rejected as not proven and as contrary to
facts found.

37. Accepted and subordinate to facts found.

38. Rejected as not proven that it is "impossible."
Otherwise, accepted but subordinate to facts found and
unnecessary.

39.-40. Accepted but subordinate to facts found and
unnecessary.

41. Rejected in part as not proven, contrary to the
greater weight of the evidence and subordinate to facts contrary
to those found. (He testified that, if the patient is admitted
in the middle of the night and he does not see the patient until
morning, he sometimes does not see the patient again before
discharge.) Otherwise accepted, but the decision made by the
Respondent in this case, given his ignorance of the existence of
the aneurysm, was similar to the "objective" decisions about
which the witness testified.

42.—45. Accepted but subordinate to facts found and
unnecessary.

Respondent’s ngggsed Findigg§ of Fact.

l.—28. Accepted and incorporated to the extent not
subordinate or unnecessary.

29. Second sentence, rejected as not clear from the
evidence when the radiology report became a part of the patient’s
chart. The rest, accepted and incorporated.

30.—35. Accepted and incorporated to the extent not

subordinate or unnecessary.

36. Accepted and incorporated to the extent not
subordinate or unnecessary. However, they do not rely on it in
lieu of a definitive interpretation or a personal review of the
X—ray.

37. Rejected as contrary to facts found.

38.—4o. Accepted and incorporated to the extent not
subordinate or unnecessary.

41. Rejected as a finding in that the issue was not
fully litigated in this case, and could only have been fully
litigated in this case if the other physicians had been named as
parties. However, it is clear that the circumstances suggested
the appropriateness of a different course of diagnosis and
treatment by the New Port Richey Hospital physicians as well.

42. Accepted and incorporated to the extent not
subordinate or unnecessary.

43. Accepted and incorporated.

44. First sentence, rejected as contrary to the
greater weight of the evidence and to facts found. (See Finding
of Fact 16.) Second sentence, accepted and incorporated. Third
sentence, rejected as not clear from the evidence that the
patient would not have survived surgery if initiated earlier, but
the odds were against the patient due to the nature of the
surgery and the patient’s poor surgical status.

45.-46. Accepted but subordinate to facts found, and
unnecessary.

47. Accepted and incorporated.

48. Rejected in part (not informing himself as to the

X—rays, either by personally reading them or by obtaining the

19

radiologist's definitive interpretation) as contrary to facts
found; accepted in part (as to the other charges) and

incorporated.

20

FILED

Department of Professfomi Regulation

STATE OF FLORIDA AGENCY CLERK 3‘91,ij
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL RzGU T , P¢5
BOARD OF MED Q
W
__.

 

CLERK ’
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL) DATE ‘8 '35” 9:9»
REGULATION,
Petitioner,
vs. DOAH CASE NO.: 91—6669

DPR CASE NO.: 89—8841
JAYAPRAKASH KAMATH, M.D.,

Respondent.

EXCEPTIONS TO RECOMMENDED ORDER
COMES NOW, the Respondent, by and through his undersigned
attorney, and files these Exceptions to the Recommended Order

entered in this cause, and states:

1. Respondent takes exception to the first two sentences of
Finding of Fact number 11 of the Hearing Officer's Recommended

Order, which states:

11. With respect to this patient, the Respondent
practiced below that level of care, skill and treatment
which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions
and circumstances (below the standard of care) in that he
did not personally review the x—rays on the patient, read
or have reported to him the contents of the radiologist's
report, or talk to the radiologist. Instead, he relied
totally on the emergency room physician‘s ”Wet Read."

2. Respondent takes exception to a portion of the first

sentence of Finding of Fact number 12 of the Hearing Officer's
I

Recommended Order, which provides:

12. Although it was below the standard of care for
respondent not to either read the x—rays himself or
obtain the radiologist's definitive interpretation

DISCUSSION

Section 120.57(1)(b)(10) Florida Statutes, provides, in

pertinent part that:

The agency .. . may not reject or modify the Findings of
Fact unless the agency first determines from a review of
the complete record, and states with particularity in the
Order, that the Findings of Fact were not based on
competent substantial evidence, or that the proceedings
on which the findings were based did not comply with the
essential requirements of law.

The aforementioned Findings of Fact, were not based upon
competent substantial evidence, or, in the alternative, the
proceeding on which the findings were based did not comply with
essential requirements of law. Respondent maintains that the
Hearing Officer has made inconsistent Findings of Fact, thus
demonstrating that the above—referenced Findings of Fact are not
based on competent substantial evidence or that the proceeding did

not comply with essential requirements of law.
The Hearing Officer, in Finding of Fact number 12 makes

additional findings which are inconsistent with the Findings of

Fact quoted above, to wit:

12. Although it was below the standard of care for
respondeht not to either read the x—rays themselves or
obtain the radiologist's definitive interpretation it was
reasonable for the resggndent to exgect that the
emergency room physician would have told himI and noted
in the "E.R. Sheet” that the Qatient he was beigg
reggrred had an aneurysm of the kind and size of the one
th§_yatient had in this case. Even if the emququx
doctor had not initially cgmmunicated to the Resgondent
the existence of the aneurysm[ either directly or through
the ”E.R. Sheet”l it was reasonable for the Respondent to
exgect thatl in the normal course, the Radiologist
reviewiqgithe x—ray§ would have noted thathaccordingito
the "E. R. SheetﬂJ the E. R. Doctor ”missed" the aneurysm
and would have contacted the E. R. Physician to brigg
this to his attentioqL_§nd that the E. R. Doctor then
wqglg have contacted the respondent to advise him of the
omission.

As noted above, the Hearing Officer found that Respondent’s
reliance on the emergency room physician to communicate in their
telephone conversation, and note in the "E. R. Sheet", the
existence of the aneurysm which was seen on the x—ray. Further, the
Hearing Officer finds that it was reasonable for Respondent to
believe that a Radiologist, having determined that the E. R.
Physician apparently ”missed” the aneurysm would have taken steps
to notify the treating physicians of the existence of the same.
These findings of the reasonableness of Respondent's actions in
this case, are clearly inconsistent with the Hearing Officer's
finding that Respondent's failure to read the x—ray himself, obtain
a copy of the formal radiology report, or talk to the‘radiologist,
was below acceptable standards of care.

Section 458.331(1)(t), provides in pertinent part that a
physician may be disciplined for:

(t) Gross or repeated malpractice or the
failure to practice medicine with that level
of care, skill, treatment which is recognized
by reasonably prudent similar physician as
being acceptable under similar conditions and

circumstances. The Board shall give great

weight to the provisions of §766.102 when
enforcing this paragraph .

Section 766.102, Florida Statutes, provides in pertinent part:

(1) . . . the prevailing professional standard
of care for a. given health care provider,
shall be that llevel of care, skill and
treatment which, in light of all relevant
surrounding circumstances, is Irecognized as
acceptable and appropriate by reasonably
prudent similar health care providers.

Dr. Kamath, in his treatment of this patient, did practice at

that level of care, skill and treatment, which in light of the

relevant surrounding circumstances, was consistent with acceptable
and appropriate practice, as recognized by reasonably prudent
physicians. Numerous physicians testified at the formal hearing in
this matter, or through depositions which were admitted into
evidence. Drs. Sreenath, Catadonna, Weston, Kamath, and
Petitioner's Expert, Dr. Goldberger, all board certified
gastroenterologists, testified that they do rely on x—ray
interpretations performed by emergency room physicians. (See
transcript pages 27, 136, 193, 216, 254, and Petitioner's Exhibit
7, pages 78 and 79. In addition, Dr. Kareff, a board certified
emergency room physician, testified that in his experience,
physicians do rely on emergency room physician interpretations of
x—rays. (Please see Respondent's Exhibit 3, page 14). Therefore,
it is clear that reasonably prudent physicians do rely on emergency
room physician interpretations of x—rays in their care and
treatment of patients. The Hearing Officer's finding that it was
reasonable for Dr. Kamath to expect that the emergency room
physician would have told him, and noted in the ”E. R. Sheet", that
the patient had an aneurysm of the kind and size of the one this
patient had, is supported by competent substantial evidence. All
physicians who reviewed the x—rays including the ER physician, Dr.
Chase, testified that the aneurysm is clear and should have been
readily diagnosed by any ohysician reviewing the x—rays. It was
totally inappropriate for the emergency room physician to withhold
this information from Dr. Kamath in both his telephone
conversation, as well as in the entry for x—ray results in the

emergency room record.

The Hearing Officer's finding that it was reasonable for Dr.
Kamath to expect that in the normal course, the radiologist
reviewing the x«rays would have noted that the E. R. physician
apparently "missed” the aneurysm and that the aneurysm would then
have been brought to Dr. Kamath's attention, is also supported by
the record. Drs. Wollowick and Abrahamsen, both board certified
radiologists, testified that radiologists routinely contact
attending physicians if they believe that there has been a
discrepancy between their interpretation of an x—ray, and that
interpretation recorded by the emergency room physician.
(Respondent's exhibit 2, pages 16 and 17, Respondent‘s exhibit 4,
pages 10 through 13). Drs. Weston and Kamath testified that a
quality assurance plan existed at Morton Plant Hospital, that would
require such a contact from the radiology department, in the event
of a discrepancy in the x~ray interpretations. (Transcript pages
188 through 193, 251 through 253). Therefore, Dr. Kamath acted in
a manner which is consistent with the actions of a reasonably
prudent similar physician, under similar conditions and
Circumstances, in his belief that he would be contacted if
additional pathology was diagnosed by the Radiology Department,
which had not been diagnosed by the emergency room physician.

Since Dr. Kamath's reliance on the emergency room physician's
interpretation of the x—ray was reasonable, and since his reliance
on his understanding that he would be contacted if additional
pathology was discovered by the radiology department was
reasonable, it was incongruous to then find that Dr. Kamath has

deviated from acceptable standards of care by virtue of his failure

to review the x—ray himself. Physicians, working in hospital
situations, must rely on the services of other appropriately
trained professionals. Physicians do not routinely personally
review pathology slides, which have already been reviewed by
pathologists, nor do they re—do blood cultures performed by
technicians. Since Dr. Kamath's reliance on the performance of the
emergency room physician and radiologist was reasonable, he cannot
now be found to have deviated from acceptable standards of care by
acting reasonably.

The Hearing Officer's finding in paragraph 11 of the Findings
of Fact of the Recommended Order, that Dr. Kamath "relied totally
on the emergency room physician's "wet read", is also erroneous and
not based on competent substantial evidence. Dr. Kamath relied not
only on the emergency room physician's ”wet read” of the x—ray, as
well as his reasonable reliance that the Radiology Department would
make a contact in the event of a missed interpretation, but also on
his physical examination of the patient, the history received from
the patient, and the patient's clinical course in the hospital. As
found by the Hearing Officer in the Recommended Order there were no
clinical signs or symptoms of a symptomatic aneurysm during the
patient's stay at the hospital (Finding of Fact No. 8). when the
Respondent saw the patient, the patient had already received one
enema and seemed to be reéponding to the treatment. (Finding of
Fact No. S.) The patient continued to respond satisfactorily to
the treatment during the day. (Finding of Fact No. 6.) The next
morning, the patient ate 80 percent of his breakfast and was not

complaining of pain or asking to see a doctor. (Finding of Fact

QER¥IE1§AT§10F SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to
Jayaprakash Kamath, M.D., 5800 48th Street North, Suite 206, St.
Petersburg, Florida 33709 and Bruce D. Lamb, Esquire, 201 E.
Kennedy Boulevard, Suite 1000, Tampa, Florida 33601, by U.S. Mail
to J. Lawrence Johnston, Hearing Officer, Division of
Administrative Hearings, The DeSoto Building, 1230 Apalachee
Parkway, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—1550; and by interoffice
delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney,
Department of Professional Regulation, 1940 North Monroe Street,

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792 at or before 5:00 P.M., this

day of , 1992

 

OctOrders/Kamath

No. 6.) The nurses report satisfied Dr. Kamath that the patient
was responding to the treatment for fecal impaction and could be
discharged. (Finding of Fact No. 7.) Therefore, Dr. Kamath not
only relied upon the emergency room physician‘s read and his belief
that he would be contacted if the Radiologist found additional
pathology, but also on his examination and the patient's hospital
clinical course.

The Hearing Officer's conclusion found in paragraph 4 of the
Conclusions of Law contained in the Recommended Order is correct.
The Health Care System failed the patient in this case. Dr.
Kamath, did not personally view the x—rays. Two other physicians
did. At the hospital where the patient was subsequently treated,
the emergency room physician and attending physician failed to even
order x—rays for a period in excess of 11 hours. The Health Care
System did fail this patient. However, that failure should not be
visited upon Dr. Kamath who, as found by the Hearing Officer, acted
reasonably. A finding that Dr. Kamath deviated from acceptable
standards of care is totally inconsistent with the finding that he
acted reasonably in his reliance on other qualified health care

practitioners. This case should be dismissed.

Respectfully submitted

6

Bruce D. Lamb Esquire

Shear, Newman Hahn &
Rosenkranz,‘P.A.

Post Office Box 2378

Tampa, FL 33601

(813) 228—8530

Attorney for Respondent

    

 

v\_'.y,_,,._

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTEFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
was méifg3i;;i:§tj::£égﬁéoé2§gggé§epaid, this 1:35 day of August,
1992, to: Francesca Plendl, Esquire, Department of Professional
Regulation, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, FL 32399—0792;
and Dorothy Faircloth, Executive Director, Board of Medicine, 1940

North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, FL 32399—0792.

ATTORNEY

rILtL)

Depacrrment o! Profess onal Reguiaﬁdﬂ
C C ’WEWL‘Y CLERK

'A-K‘:
-~3ur{?

STATE OF FLORIDA J“ 'w
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULA
BOARD OF MEDICINE

 

CLERK
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL .
REGULATION, DATE 8 'Q 6‘" QLQ\ "
Petitioner,
DOAH CASE NO.: 91—6669
vs. DPR CASE NO.: 89—8841

JAYAPRAKASH KAMATH, H.D.

Respondent.

VVVVVVVVVVV

MEMQRANDUM OF LAW IN SUPPORT QF RESPONDENT'S
EXCEPTIONS TO RECOMMENDED ORDER

COMES ROW, the Respondent, by and through his undersigned
attorney, and files this Memorandum of Law in Support of
Respondent's Exceptions to the Recommended Order.

1. It is well settled that disciplinary proceedings against
physicians are governed by statute and where statutes authorize an
action against a license to engage in the practice of a profession,
the provisions of such statutes must be strictly construed and

strictly followed because the statute is penal in nature. gee,

Breesmen v, Department of Professional Regulation, (Fla. 1st DCA
1990), 567 So.2d 469, and Farzad v. Degartment of Professional
Regulation, (Fla. 1st DCA 1983), 443 So.2d 373. Since the Hearing
Officer found that Dr. Kamath acted reasonably in his reliance on
the emergency room physician's interpretation of the x—ray and
acted reasonably in his belief that any additional pathology found
by the radiology department would be reported to him, it is totally
inconsistent to then find that Dr. Kamath's failure to review the
x—ray personally constituted a deviation from acceptable standards

of care. The statute in question, provides that a physician may

only be disciplined if he failed to practice at that level which is
recognized by a reasonably prudent similar~ physician as being
acceptable under similar conditions and circumstances. The
conditions and circumstances presented to Dr. Kamath include the
fact that, despite a personal telephone conversation with the ER
physician, which addressed x—ray findings, the ER physician
withheld information concerning the existence of the aneurysm.
This information was withheld not only in the conversation but also
in the ER physician‘s charting of x—ray findings. History and
physical examination did not reveal the aneurysm which was
asymptomatic and the patient responded to treatment for impaction.
Strictly construing this statute as is required by the above cited

case law, requires the Board to dismiss this case.

 
    

BRUCE D. LAMB,
SHEAR, NEWMAN, HAHN & ROSENKRANZ PA
P. O. Box 2378

Tampa, FL 33601

(813) 228-8530

Florida Bar Number: 314714

Attorney for Respondent
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foriginal and One copy of the
foregoing has been mailed this £219day of August, 1992 to: Dorothy
Faircloth, Executive Director, Board of Medicine, 1940 North Monroe
Street, Tallahassee, FL §2399—0792, and a copy mailed to:
Francesca Plendl, Esquire, Department of Professional Regulation,
1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, FL 32399—079

     

 

rlLtL)

Demrmlent of Proiessxonal Regulation
AGENCY CLERK

(’ '
STATE OF FLORIDA w {2
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE Haw W

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL CLERK

REGULATION, DATE E .01 3*- Q 1

Petitioner,

 

vs. DOAH Case No. 91—6669

DPR Case NO. 59-8841
JAYRPRAKASE KARATE, M.D.

Respondent.

 

PETITIONER’S RESPONSE TO RESPONDENT’S
EXCEPTIONS TO THE RECOMMENDED ORDER

COMES NOW the DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION, the
Petitioner, by and through it’s undersigned counsel, and hereby
submits this Response to the Respondent's Exceptions to the
Recommended Order of the Hearing Officer in this matter, and states
as follows:

1. A formal hearing regarding this matter was held on April
30, 1992. On June 26, 1992, the Petitioner submitted its Proposed
Recommended Order. On July 27, 1992 the Hearing Officer issued a
Recommended Order finding Respondent guilty of violating Section
458.331(l)(t), Florida Statutes, by practicing medicine below the
level of care, skill and treatment which is recognized by a
reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under
similar conditions and circumstances. The Hearing Officer
recommended that the Respondent be fined $2,000 and that he be
reprimanded. The Petitioner has filed a Motion to Increase

Penalty.

2. On August 17, 1992, the Respondent filed Exceptions to the
Recommended Order.

3. In Paragraph One of his Exceptions to Recommended Order,
the Respondent takes exception to the first two sentences of
Finding of Fact number 11 of the Hearing Officer’s Recommended
Order, which finds that the Respondent practiced below the standard
of care in that he did not personally review the x—rays in
question, or read or have reported to him the contents of the
radiologist’s report or talk to the radiologist; and instead relied
totally on the emergency room physician’s "Wet Read". The Hearing
Officer’s Finding of Fact number 11 was supported by competent and
substantial evidence in the form of testimony by Petitioner’s
expert witnesses. Paul Goldberg, M.D., a Board certified
gastroenterologist with sixteen years experience, and William Boyd,
M.D., a Board certified gastroenterologist with seventeen years
experience, both gave well supported opinions on this matter.
(Depo. Goldberg at 22 and T. at 98 and 115). Section
120.57(1)(b)(10), Florida Statutes states that the agency may not
reject or modify the findings of fact unless the agency :igst
determines from a review of the complete record, and states with
particularity in the order, that the findings of fact were not
based upon competent substantial evidence or that the proceedings
on which the findings were based did not comply with essential
requirements of law. As this finding of fact was supported by
competent and substantial evidence, this exception should be

rejected.

4. In Paragraph Two of his Exceptions to Recommended Order,
the Respondent takes exception to a portion of the first sentence
of Finding of Fact number 12 of the Hearing Officer’s Recommended
Order, which states that "...Although it was below the standard of
care for respondent not to either read the x-rays himself or obtain
the radiologist’s definitive interpretation...." The Hearing
Officer’s Finding of Fact number 12 was supported by the testimony
of Petitioner’s expert witnesses (see Paragraph 3, above). Section
120.57(l)(b)(10), Florida Statutes states that the agency may not
reject or modify the findings of fact unless the agency first
determines from a review of the complete record, and states with
particularity in the order, that the findings of fact were not
based upon competent substantial evidence or that the proceedings
on which the findings were based did not comply with essential
requirements of law. As this finding of fact was supported by
competent and substantial evidence, this exception should be
rejected.

5. At page two of his exceptions, the Respondent argues that
the Hearing Officer was inconsistent in stating that (l) the
Respondent fell below the standard of care in not personally
reviewing the x—rays or reports and (2) that it was reasonable for
the Respondent to expect that the E.R. physician or the radiologist
would have pointed out an aneurysm such as the one in question.
The Respondent argues that the Findings of Fact mentioned in
paragraphs 3 and 4, above, are therefore not based on competent
substantial evidence or that the proceeding did not comply with

essential requirements of law. The findings of the Hearing Officer

are not inconsistent. The statements made by the Hearing Officer
regarding what was reasonable for the Respondent to expect can be
construed as mitigating, but the Hearing Officer clearly states
that the Respondent fell below the standard of care. The fact that
it is reasonable for a professional to expect others to act in a
particular manner does not negate the professional’s responsibility
to perform at a certain level himself. A lawyer may be reasonable
in expecting his secretary to correctly prepare a pleading that she
has prepared correctly in the past. This does not take away from
his own responsibilities.

6. At pages 3—6 of his exceptions, the Respondent argues that
evidence was presented to support the finding of the Hearing
Officer that the E.R. physician and/or the radiologist should have
done more to notify treating physicians of the aneurysm. The fact
that more than one person in this case may have fallen below the
standard of care may be a mitigating factor, but it does not change
the fact, and is not inconsistent with the fact, that the
Respondent did not practice within the standard.

7. At page 6 of his exceptions, the Respondent argues that
the Hearing Officer’s finding that the Respondent "relied totally
on the emergency room physician’s "wet read" of the x—ray" is
erroneous, as the Respondent also relied on the physical exam and
history of the patient, as well as other factors. The Respondent
has taken this sentence of the Recommended Order out of the context
used by the Hearing Officer. A reading of Paragraph 11 of the
Hearing Officer’s Recommended Order reveals that this sentence

follows a discussion on the Respondent’s lack of review of the x—

rays and the information found therein.

8. At page 7 of his exceptions, the Respondent argues that
The Health Care System failed the patient in this case, and that
the failure should not be visited upon the Respondent. This
refusal to acknowledge the significant part that the Respondent
played in this failure should not be accepted by the Board.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner moves this Honorable Board to

reject the Respondent’s Exceptions to the Recommended Penalty for

the reasons stated above.

Respectfully submitted,

Kl ,

//Za/W ﬂaw
Francesca Plendl
Senior Attorney
Florida Bar No. 765996
Dept. of Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Fl. 32399-0792
(904) 488-0062

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and Correct Copy of the foregoing
PROPOSED RECOMMENDED ORDER has been furnished to Bruce D. Lamb,
Esquire, P.O. Box 2378, Tampa, Florida 33601 by United States

Mail, this g5+h day of , 1992.

Francesca Plendl
Senior Attorney

STATE OF FLORIDR

DIVISION OF

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
vs.
JAYAPRAKABH KAHATH, M.D.,
Respondent.

ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

CASE NO. 91—6669

vvvvvvvvwvvvvvv

RECOMMENDED ORDER

On April 30,

1992, a formal administrative hearing was

held in this case in Tampa, Florida, before J. Lawrence Johnston,

Hearing Officer, Division of Administrative Hearings.

For Petitioner:

For Respondent:

APPEARANCES

Francesca Plendl,

Senior Attorney

Department of Professional
Regulation

Northwood Centre

1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792

Esquire

Bruce D. Lamb, Esquire

Shear, Newman, Hahn & Rosenkranz,
201 East Kennedy Boulevard

Suite 1000

Tampa, Florida 33601

P.A.

STATEMENT OF THE ISSUES

The issues for determination in this case are whether

the Board of Medicine should discipline the Respondent,

Jayaprakash Xamath, M.D.,

Administrative Complaint, DPR Case No.

on charges set out in the

89—8841. Specifically,

the Administrative Complaint charges that the Respondent was

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

PETITIONER,

VS. CASE NO. 8908841

JAYAPRAKASH KAMATH, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

 

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
JAYAPRAKASH KAMATH, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent,"
and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0036704. Respondent’s last known address is
5800 — 49th Street North, Suite 206, Saint Petersburg, Florida,
33709.

3. On or about August 1, 1988, Patient #1, a seventy—eight
(78) year old male, presented to Morton Plant Hospital (MPH) in

Clearwater, Florida, emergency room (ER) with complaints of

abdominal pain and constipatien. Patient #1 had a history of
arteriosclerotic cardiovascular disease, coronary artery disease,
diabetes, coronary artery bypass grafts and aortic valve
replacements.

4. Patient #1 was seen by Dr. Jerry Chase, the ER physician
and was initially diagnosed with fecal impaction. Dr. Chase also
ordered x—rays of Patient #l’s abdomen.

5. Dr. Belur Sreenath admitted Patient #1 to MPH and
concurred with Dr. Chase’s diagnosis.

6. The x—ray report as interpreted by Dr. Herbert Wollowick
reads "much fecal material — no obst." The report also indicates
a large tulsofied aneurysm, eight (8) centimeters in diameter, near
the renal arteries. Based on these x—rays Dr. Wollowick diagnosed
Patient #1 with a large abdominal aortic aneurysm.

7. Enemas were started on Patient #1 based on Dr. Chase's
diagnosis, with successful results.

8. Respondent, a gastroenterologist, was subsequently
consulted, and Patient #1 was transferred to Respondent's care
under twenty-three (23) hour observation.

9. Respondent evaluated Patient #1 and diagnosed fecal
impaction.

10. Respondent did not read the x—ray report, nor did he see
the actual x-rays or request to see them.

11. Respondent examined Patient #l's abdomen and noted

nothing unusual.

U. _ _'Jl

12. On or about August 2, 1988, Respondent discharged Patient
#1 via a telephone order without seeing or examining Patient #1
personally.

13. On or about August 4, 1988, Patient #1 was admitted to
New Port Richey Hospital (NPRH) with complaints of groin and back
pain. Patient #1 was also hypotensive.

14. Dr. M. Wu examined Patient #1 and ordered a computerized
axial tomography (CAT) scan of his abdomen to rule out a ruptured
abdominal aortic aneurysm.

15. Patient #1 went into cardiopulmonary arrest before the
CAT scan could be performed. Patient #1 responded favorably to
resuscitation efforts and was transferred to the Critical Care Unit
(CCU).

16. A portable sonogram performed in CCU revealed a ruptured
abdominal aortic aneurysm.

17. Patient #1 was transferred to the operating room and
underwent surgical resection of his aneurysm.

18. On or about August 5, 1988, Patient #1 underwent surgery
a second time, but continued to deteriorate and subsequently
expired from cardiac arrest on or about August 6, 1988.

19. Respondent inappropriately relied on Dr. Chase’s initial
diagnosis of Patient #1 and failed to explore other possible causes
of Patient #1’s abdominal pain.

20. Respondent did not see or arrange to have Patient #1 seen

on day of discharge.

21. Respondent failed to diagnose Patient #l’s aneurysm.
Patient #1 therefore had no knowledge of his condition.

22. Patient #1’5 treatment at NPRH was delayed because he had
no knowledge of his abdominal aortic aneurysm.

23. Respondent did not dictate Patient #1’5 admission note
until on or about August 17, 1988, over two (2) weeks after Patient
#1’s admission.

24. Respondent dictated no discharge note for Patient #1.

COUNT ONE

25. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty—four (24), as if fully set forth herein this Count
One .

26. Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances, in that Respondent failed to do the following:
examine Patient #1'5 x-rays and/or read the x-ray report; see
Patient #1 to arrange to have him seen on the day of discharge;
diagnose Patient #l’s abdominal aortic aneurysm; and inform Patient
#1 that he had an abdominal aortic aneurysm, thereby delaying
Patient #l’s treatment.

27. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(l)(t), Florida Statutes, by being guilty of gross or
repeated malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that

level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a

reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under
similar conditions and circumstances.
COUNT TWO

28. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty-four (24), and twenty—six (26), as if fully set
forth herein this Count Two.

29. Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of the patient, including, but
not limited to, patient histories; examination results; test
results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or administered;
and reports of consultations and hospitalizations, in that
Respondent dictated Patient #l’s admission note over two (2) weeks
after admission; and Respondent failed to dictate a discharge note.

30. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.33l(1)(m), Florida Statutes, by failing to keep written medical
records justifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or
administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s license,
restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this /7—‘ day of géﬂ , 1991.

George Stua Secretary

    
     

  
   

   

 

La y . McPherson, r.
ChlEf Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry C. McPherson, Jr. F I L E D

Chief Medical Attorney Demﬂnmrrofm

. . ** , mes :' 1
Department of Profe551onal Regulatlon Aegmcyszngea)awn
1940 North Monroe Street ‘

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750 ( ,
Florida Bar #788643 “(£0
CJR/hrb/tc OL»"'””

PCP: September 9, 1991 CLERK
Ashkar, Skinner and McEwen

 

DATE ‘} ’ I

guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or failure to practice
medicine with that level of care, skill and treatment which is
recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physician as being
acceptable under similar conditions and circumstances and that he
failed to keep written medical records justifying the course of
treatment of a patient, in violation of Section 458.331(1)(m) and
(t), Fla. Stat. (l991)-—and, if so, what discipline is
appropriate.

PRELIMINARY STATEMENT

On or about September 17, 1991, the Petitioner, the
Department of Professional Regulation, filed against the
Respondent, Jayaprakash Kamath, M.D., an Administrative
Complaint, DPR Case No. 89—8841, as described in the Statement of
the Issues. The Respondent timely requested formal
administrative proceedings under Section 120.S7(l), Fla. Stat.
(1991), and the matter was referred to the Division of
Administrative Hearings for assignment of a hearing officer on or
about October 17, 1991. The case initially was scheduled for
final hearing on January 29, 1992, but was continued on the
Respondent’s unopposed motion to April 30, 1991.

At the final hearing, by agreement of the parties, the
Respondent initially called five witnesses out of order. Then
the DPR called an expert witness before the Respondent called two
expert witnesses and testified in his own behalf.

The DPR also had Petitioner's Exhibits 1 through 9
admitted in evidence.1 Petitioner's Exhibit 7 is the transcript

of the deposition of an expert witness.

l Petitioner's Exhibit 8 was admitted in ew}dence hut

The Respondent had Respondent's Exhibits 1 through 6
admitted in evidence and, by agreement of the parties, was
permitted to file, as a late exhibit, Respondent’s Exhibit 5, the
transcript of a deposition to be taken. Respondent's Exhibit 1
was an affidavit which the parties stipulated was sufficient in
itself to support a finding. Respondent’s Exhibits 3 and 4 were
the transcripts of depositions of expert witnesses. Respondent’s
Exhibits 2 and 5 were the transcripts of depositions of fact
witnesses, namely the radiologist and emergency room physician in
the Case, respectively.

At the end of the hearing, the DPR ordered the
preparation of a transcript of the final hearing, and the parties
were given ten days from the filing of the transcript, or the
filing of Respondent’s Exhibit 5, in which to file proposed
recommended orders. The transcript of the final hearing was
filed on June 11, and Respondent’s Exhibit 5 was filed on
June 15, 1992, making proposed recommended orders due to be filed
on or before June 25, 1992. The Respondent’s unopposed motion
for a one day extension was granted.

Explicit rulings on the proposed findings of fact
contained in the parties’ proposed recommended orders may be
found in the attached Appendix to Recommended Order, Case No.

91-6669.

1 Cont. constitutes hearsay that would not be admissible over
objection in a civil action and is not sufficient in itself to
support a finding.

ut-uxJA J

FINDINGS OF FACT

1. The Respondent, Jayaprakash Kamath, M.D., is a
licensed physician in the State of Florida, having license ME
0036704. He is board certified in internal medicine and
gastroenterology. He has had no prior complaints of any kind
against him since he began practicing medicine in Florida in
1980, and he has a reputation for being a competent and caring
physician.

2. On the morning of August 1, 1988, while making
rounds at Morton Plant Hospital in Clearwater, Florida, the
Respondent was paged by one of his partners, Belur Sreenath, M.D.
The Respondent returned the call and was asked to see a patient
whom Sreenath had just accepted and admitted on a 23—hour basis
at Morton Plant. Sreenath reported that the patient was a
referral from the Morton Plant emergency room. The patient’s
regular physician was on vacation, and the regular physician’s
on-call cover had recommended to the emergency room physician
that the patient be referred to the Respondent and Sreenath to
treat the patient for diagnosed fecal impaction. It was reported
to the Respondent, through Sreenath, that the patient had come
into the emergency room at about five in the morning complaining
of abdominal pain and constipation. The emergency room
physician, Jerry Julius Chase, M.D., had three X—rays done and
had done his own "wet reads" of the X—rays before sending them to
the radiology department for a definitive interpretation.
According to Chase, the X—rays showed "much fecal matter, no

obstruction." Chase did not mention any other significant

findings. Chase’s preliminary diagnosis was "fecal impaction."
Sreenath also reported that he (Sreenath) had ordered enemas for
the patient.

3. Soon after the Respondent received the call from
his partner, the Respondent called Chase, who was still in the
emergency room and still had the X-rays. Chase confirmed what
Sreenath had told the Respondent, again not mentioning any other
significant findings.

4. After talking to Chase, the Respondent visited the
patient in his hospital room. By this time it was about 10:00
a.m. The Respondent took a history from the patient, examined
the patient, and read the patient’s chart. The chart included
the results of lab work and the "ER sheet,“ which included the
emergency room physician’s diagnosis of abdominal pain and
impaction and the results of his "wet—read" of the X—rays, but it
did not yet include a report from the radiology department or the
X-rays themselves. The Respondent did not contact the radiology
department for a definitive interpretation of the X—rays or
obtain the X—rays for his own review.

5. By the time the Respondent saw the patient, the
patient already had one enema and seemed to be responding to the
treatment. Based on the information he had, the Respondent made
a diagnosis of fecal impaction, confirmed his partner’s orders
for enemas for the patient, and added a stool softener. The
nursing staff was ordered to monitor the patient’s progress.

6. The patient continued to respond satisfactorily to

treatment during the day. Between ten and eleven in the evening

of August 1, 1988, the patient complained of some abdominal pain
or cramping (symptoms that are consistent with a diagnosis of
fecal impaction and enema treatments) and the nurses on duty
contacted the Respondent’s partner, who was on call. Sreenath
ordered a combination of demerol and vistaril as an analgesic.
One small dose was enough to relieve the patient’s pain, and the
patient slept through most of the night. He ate 80% of his
breakfast the next morning and was not complaining of pain or
asking to see a doctor.

7. At approximately 9:15 a.m. on August 2, 1988, a
nurse telephoned the Respondent for a decision whether the
patient was being discharged or was being admitted as an
inpatient. The Respondent still had not seen the patient’s X—
rays, seen or had reported to him the radiology report on them,
or spoken to the radiologist. On questioning, the nurse reported
the patient’s status to the Respondent. The nurse’s report
satisfied the Respondent that the patient was responding to the
treatment for fecal impaction and could be discharged. The nurse
was given orders to have arrangements made for the patient to see
his regular physician within a week and to instruct the patient
on symptoms to report if they occurred between discharge and
seeing his regular physician. In accordance with the
Respondent’s telephone instructions, the patient was discharged
at approximately 9:30 a.m. on August 2, 1988.

8. Although there were no clinical signs or symptoms
of it during the patient’s stay at Morton Plant, the patient had

a large aortic aneurysm, approximately eight centimeters in

