5W

Final Order No. BPR-94-03128 Date 5461]”
STATE OF FLORIDA . 'iiiﬁﬁ“

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AN? PROFEifprofmmmusmdpmk$WM1memmn
BOARD OF “EDICIN AGENCYCLERK

4 , A enc Clerk
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND SMA1Wanm1Hf y

 

PROFESSIONAL REGULATION, B” '
Petitioner, CASE NOS.: 92—17193
92—08955, 09—07499,
vs. 89—07501,‘89—O7502,
91—O4l23,‘92—05489,
DOUGLAS J. LOVE, M.D., 92—16394, 93—02480,
93—02655, 93—07329,
Respondent. 93-08802, 93—17278, &
93—22694

LICENSE NO.: MEOO45839

 

FINRL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER was heard by the Board oi Medicine pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on April 9, 1994 in
Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. The Board considered the proposed
Stipulation entered into between the parties in this cause.
Petitioner was represented by Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief
Attorney. Respondent appeared before the Board with Morton
J. Morris, Esquire. The parties had been properly nCtLﬁﬁd
0f the hearing. Upon consideration the Board determined that
the stipulation proposed by the parties Shall be rejected.

The Board offered to accept the proposed stipulation
(attached and incorporated herein) upon its amendment to provide

in paragraph 4. of the Stipulated Disposition that Resp dent's

O
:3

license be suspended for a minimum of two (2) years effective
from January 25, 1993, and until such time after January 25,
1995, as Respondent shall appear before the Board and establish

his ability to practice medicine with reasonable skill and

safety. In order to show such ability, Respondent must Show,
at a minimum, that he has completed all CME required by the
proposed stipulation (paragraph 4.A.) and has received a
favorable recommendation from the Physician Resource Network
(RPN). Furthermore, paragraph 5. shall be amended to impose an
indefinite probation with authority to petition for termination
only after completing 5 years of probation. Respondent's license
shall be restricted to prohibit any surgery other than Level I
office surgery, pursuant to Rule 6lF6—27.009, Florida
Administrative Code, until such time as Respondent has completed
one year of an ACGME approved residency training programl During
the term of probation, Respondent shall submit to random urine
screens conducted upon demand by the Department of Business
and Professional Regulation. All other terms of the proposed
stipulation would remain.

The parties accepted the Board's offer of settlement as
set forth above.

THEREFORE, it iS hereby ORDERED AND ADJUDGED:

l. The proposed Stipulation as amended by the Board is
hereby approved and adopted and incorporated herein by reference.

2. Respondent shall adhere to and abide by all the terms
and conditions of the Stipulation as amended.

3. This Final Order shall be placed in and become a
permanent part of Respondent‘s official record with the Board.

4. This Final Order becomes effective upon being filed
with the Clerk of the Department of Business and Professional

Regulation.

five (5) years and shall cause the PRN to send to the Board a copy
of the after care contract entered into. ﬁespondent shall comply
with all of the conditions of his after care contract with the PRN.
Respondent shall execute a release form so as to authorize the PRN
to release information to the Board of Medicine as needed for the
Board to monitor Respondent’s progress in the PRN’s program.
ii. Respondent shall cause the director of the
Physician’s Recovery Network (PRN) to report to the Board of
Medicine any problems that may occur with Respondent and any
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes. Respondent shall
cause the director of the PRN to make such a report within thirty
(30) days of the occurrences of any problems, or violations of
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.
C. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE SUPERVISING PHYSICIAN.
The Supervisor shall:
i. Review twenty—five (25) percent Of
Respondent’s active patient records at least once a month, for the
purpose of ascertaining whether Respondent is practicing within the
acceptable level of care and performing appropriate and medically
indicated diagnostic testing. The supervisor shall go to
Respondent's office once every month and shall review Respondent’s
calendar or patient log and shall select the records to be

reviewed.
ii. Randomly review fifty (50%) percent of
Respondent’s patient records and billing for patients where more

than two diagnostic tests were ordered for a single medical

Q
(Li
‘ \
(3
»J

condition or injury. In this regard, Respondent shall maintain a
log documenting all such patients.

iii. Submit reports on a quarterly basis, in
affidavit form, which shall include:

a. A brief statement of why Respondent
is on probation.

b. A description of Respondent’s
practice (type and composition).

c. A statement addressing Reséondent’s
compliance with the terms of probation.

d. A brief description of the
supervisor’s relationship with the Respondent.

e. A statement advising the Board of any
problems which have arisen.

f. A summary of the dates the supervisor
went to Respondent’s office, the number of records reviewed, and
the overall quality of the records reviewed.

iv. Maintain contact with the Respondent on a
frequency of at least once per month. In the event that the
supervisor is not timely contacted by the Respondent, then the
supervisor shall immediately report this fact to the Board, in
writing.

v. Respondent’s supervisor shall appear
before the Probation Committee at the first meeting of said
committee following commencement of the probation, and at such

other times as directed by the committee. It shall be Respondent’s

.2!

responsibility to ensure the appearance. of his supervisor as
requested or directed. If the approved supervisor fails to appear
as requested or directed by the Probation Committee, the Respondent
shall immediately cease practicing medicine until such time as the
approved supervisor or alternate supervisor appears before the‘
Probation Committee.

D. REPORTS FROM RESPONDENT. The Respondent shall
submit semi—annual reports to the Probation Committee, in affidavit
form, the contents of which may be further specified by the Board,
but which shall include:

i. A brief statement of why Respondent is on
probation;

ii. A description of practice location;

iii. A description of current practice (type
and composition);

iv. A brief statement of compliance with
probationary terms;

v. A statement advising the Board of any
problems which have arisen.

E. Any variance from the probationary terms
outlined above or a failure on the part of Respondent to comply
with any of the aforementioned terms shall result in the immediate
suspension of Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the
State of Florida via an Emergency Suspension Order.

6. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is

subject to the approval of the Board and the Department. In this

C7
C.)
L.)
{\J

regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing
paragraphs) shall have no force and effect unless a Final Order
incorporating the terms of this Agreement is entered by the Board.

7. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the
meeting of the Board where this Agreement is considered.
Respondent, in conjunction with the consideration of this Agreement
by the Board, shall respond to questions under oath from the Board,
Board staff or Department staff.

8. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made
in furtherance of this Agreement by Respondent may be used as
direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding; however,
such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment
purposes.

9. Respondent and the Department fully understand that
this joint Agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same
shall include any and all proceedings initiated against Respondent
for acts or omissions specifically set forth in the Administrative
Complaints attached as composite Exhibit ”A" herein, as well as all
matters presently being investigated by the Department of Business
and Professional Regulation which are currently in the field, and
any and all matters relating to the actions or omissions of the
Respondent prior to the January 25, 1993, date of the Emergency
Suspension Order issued in this cause (including any legal
disposition of matters which occur after the Emergency Suspension
Order, but related to actions or omissions prior to such time).

However, this Agreement shall preclude any and all matters which

10

.-\ ." —\ n

L'Lia d

u’

arise from actions or omissions of Respondent after the date of
entry of a Final Order incorporating the terms of the joint
Agreement.

10. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreement,
Respondent expressly waives all further procedural steps, and
expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to
otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the Agreement and
the Final Order of the Board incorporating said Agreement.

11. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreement, the
parties hereby agree that each party will bear his own attorney’s
fees and costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this
matter. Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney’s fees or
costs from the Department in connection with this matter.

12. This agreement is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the
Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by
the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the board or
any of its members from further participation, consideration, or

resolution of these proceedings.

11

CD
C L)
( L:
C.)

SIGNED this 1‘ )LM‘ day of January, 1994.

__4Z€254é27?z_&Z2222________
DOUGLA J. OVE, M.D.

Before me, personally appeared Douglas J. Love, M.D.,

whbse identity is known to be by MW— (type of

identification) and who, under oath, acknowledges that her

signature appears above.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 492 6 day of

January, 1994 .

NO ARY PUBL C

 

   
    
   
   
   

My commis '.. ,
Ol-FICIAL NOTARY -
MARIA MUNOZ KLEEE

NOTARY PUBLIC STATE OF FLORIDA

COMMESSION NO‘ cmm

MY COMMISSION D<P, NOV. 16,1997

Approved this

  

2 WwwM

day of éﬂﬂﬁﬁiiv 1994-

  
    
  

 
  
  

GEORGE STU
Secretary

} x
i //

LARRY/G. MCPHERSON, q
Chiéf Attorney
Medical Section

12 DLCONS . AGR

CD
(:3
C)
(‘1!
U l

PROVISIONS REGARDING MONITORING/BUPERVIBING PHYSICIANS

Provisions governing physicians ordered to work under
supervision of monitoring or supervising physician.

I . DEFINITIONS:

A. INDIRECT SUPERVISION is supervision by a monitoring
physician (monitor) whose responsibilities are set by the Board.
Indirect supervision does not require that the monitor practice on
the same premises as the Respondent, however, the monitor shall
practice within a reasonable geographic proximity to Respondent,
which shall be within twenty (20) miles unless otherwise provided
by the Board and shall be readily available for consultation. The
monitor shall be Board—certified in the Respondent’s specialty
area, unless otherwise provided by the Board.

B. DIRECT SUPERVISION is supervision by a supervising
physician (supervisor) whose responsibilities are set by the Board.
Direct supervision requires that the supervisor and Respondent work
in the same office. The supervising physician shall be Board—
certified in the Respondent’s specialty area, unless otherwise
provided by the Board.

C. PROBATION COMMITTEE or "committee" are members of
the Board of Medicine designated by the Chairman of the Board to
serve as the Probation Committee.

II. STANDARD TERMS.

A. REQUIRED SUPERVISION.

1. The Respondent shall not practice medicine

without an approved monitor/supervisor, as specified by the Consent

("—3
f.)
C;\

(m
I

Agreement, unless otherwise ordered by the Board.

2. The monitor/supervisor must he a licensee under
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, in good standing and without
restriction or limitation on his license. In addition, the Board
or Committee may reject any proposed monitor/supervisor on the
basis that he has previously been subject to any disciplinary
action against his medical license in this or any other
jurisdiction, is currently under investigation, or is the subject
of a pending disciplinary action. The monitor/supervisor must be
actively engaged in the same or similar specialty area unless
otherwise provided by the Board or Committee. The Board or
Committee may also reject any proposed monitor/supervisor for good
cause shown.

B. MECHANISM FOR APPROVAL OF MONITOBISUPERVISOR:

l. TEMPORARY APPROVAL. The Board confers authority
on the Chairman of the Board’s Probation Committee to temporarily
approve Respondent’s monitor/supervisor. To obtain this temporary
approval, Respondent shall submit to the Chairman of the Probation
Committee the name and curriculum vitae of the proposed
monitor/supervisor at the time this agreement is considered by the
Board. Once a Final Order adopting this Agreement is filed,
Respondent shall not practice medicine without an approved
monitor/supervisor. Temporary approval shall only remain in effect
until the next meetihg of the Probation Committee.

2. FORMAL APPROVAL.

a. Respondent shall have the

monitor/supervisor with him at his first probation appearance

C)
L)
('_)
C L)
\J

before the Probation Committee. Prior to consideration of the
monitor/supervisor by the Committee, the Respondent shall provide
to the monitor/supervisor a copy of the Administrative Complaint
and Final Order in this case. Respondent shall submit a current
curriculum vitae and a description of current practice from the
proposed monitor/supervisor to the Board office no later than
fourteen days before the Respondent's first scheduled probation
appearance.

b. Respondent's monitor/supervisor shall also
appear before the Probation Committee at such other times as
directed by the Committee. It shall be Respondent’s responsibility
to ensure the appearance of his monitor/supervisor as directed. If
the approved monitor/supervisor fails to appear as requested or
directed by the Probation Committee, the Respondent shall
immediately cease practicing medicine until such time as the
approved monitor appears before the Probation Committee.

3. CHANGE IN KONITQEJSUPERVISOR. In the event
that Respondent’s monitor/supervisor is unable or unwilling to
fulfill his responsibilities as a monitor/supervisor as described
above, then the Respondent shall immediately advise the Board of
this fact. Respondent shall immediately submit to the Chairman of
the Board’s Probation Committee, the name of a temporary
monitor/supervisor for consideration. Respondent shall not
practice pending approval of this temporary monitor/supervisor by
the Chairman of the Probation Committee. Furthermore, Respondent
shall make arrangements with his temporary monitor/supervisor to

appear before the Probation Committee at its next regularly

n 1fvﬁ' m
L'; J e2 0

scheduled meeting, for consideration of the monitor/supervisor by
the Committee. Respondent shall only practice under the auspices
of the temporary monitor/supervisor (approved by the Chairman)
until the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Probation
Committee whereat the issue of the Committee’s approval of the
Respondent’s new monitor/supervisor shall be addressed.
C. CONTINUITY OF PRACTICE

1. TOLLING PROVISIONS. In the event the
Respondent leaves the State of Florida for a period of thirty days
or more or otherwise does not engage in the active practice of
medicine in the State of Florida, then certain provisions of
Respondent’s probation (and only those provisions of the probation)
shall be tolled as enumerated below and shall remain in a tolled
status until Respondent returns to active practice in the State of
Florida.

a. The time period of probation shall be
tolled.

b. The provisions regarding supervision
whether direct or indirect by another physician, and required
reports from the monitor/supervisor shall be tolled.

c. The provisions regarding preparation of
investigative reports detailing compliance with this Stipulation
shall be tolled.

d. The provisions regarding appearances
before the Probationer’s Committee shall be tolled/

2. ADDRESSES. Respondent must keep current

residence and business addresses on file with the Board.

nnncv

u“-._,£

\O

DONE and ORDERED this [(7 day of ,;b¢4 , 1994.

BOARD OF MEDIC E

W

EDWARD A. DAUER, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

 

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Final Order has been forwarded by certified U.S. Mail
this ____ day of , 1994, to Douglas J. Love, M.D.
c/o Morton J. Morris, Esquire, 2500 Hollywood Blvd., Suite 212,
Hollywood, Florida 33020, and by hand delivery to Larry G.
McPherson, Jr, Chief Attorney, Department Of Business and

Professional Regulation, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee,

Florida 32399—0750.

 

Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (10) days of any
changes of said addresses. Furthermore, Respohdent shall notify
the Board within ten (10) days in the event that Respondent leaves
the active practice of medicine in Florida.

3. ACTIVE PRACTICE. In the event that Respondent
leaves the active practice of medicine for a period of one year or
more, the Probation Committee may require Respondent to appear
before the Probation Committee and demonstrate his ability to
practice medicine with skill and safety to patients prior to
resuming the practice of medicine in this State.

D. ggggg. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to
comply with the terms of this Consent Agreement. Such costs
include, but are not limited to, the costs of preparation of
Investigative Reports detailing compliance with the terms of the
Consent Agreement, and the Board’s administrative costs directly
associated with Respondent’s probation.

E. BOARD ADDRESS. Unless otherwise directed by the
Board office, all reports, correspondence and inquiries shall be
sent to: Board of Medicine, 1940 N. Monroe Street, Tallahassee, FL

32399—0792, Attn: Final Order compliance Officer.

h‘ s)

CD
CL)
C J

CD
I'
C.

STATE OF FLORIDA ‘
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

PETITIONER,

V5. CASE NO. 9217193

DOUGLAS J. LOVE, H.D.

RESPONDENT.
/
ADMINISIRAIIVE QQMELAIHI

COMES now the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
Douglas J. Love, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent," and
alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number KB 0045839. Respondent’s last known address is 7751
West Oakland Park Blvd., Ft. Lauderdale, Florida 33351-6703.

3. On or about December 21, 1992, Respondent was involved in
an automobile accident in Lauderhill, Florida.

4. Subsequent to the accident, law enforcement officers

gathered evidence including a "plastic baggie" containing a straw,

(J
L.)

CD
f:
P)

L_ .

a credit card in the name of Respondent, and a white powder
determined via field test to be cocaine.

5. As a result of the evidence gathered by the law
enforcement officers at the scene of the accident, Respondent was
arrested and charged with possession of cocaine.

6. Respondent was further charged with driving under the
influence based on the results of a roadside sobriety test
conducted at the scene of the accident.

7. On or about January 14, 1993, Physician's Recovery
Network (PRN) notified the Department that Respondent had entered
the Addictive Disease Unit at Charter Springs Hospital for
evaluation.

8. on or about January 19, 1993, PRN notified the Department
that Respondent left Charter Springs Hospital against medical
advise.

9. On or about January 22, 1993, Dr. Roger Goetz, Director
of PRN, notified the Department that Respondent suffers from a
substance abuse problem and presents an immediate and serious
danger to the health, safety, and welfare of the public.

10. Respondent is unable to practice medicine with reasonable
skill and safety to patients by reason of illness or use of
alcohol, drugs, narcotics, chemicals, or any other type of material
or as a result of any mental or physical condition in that
Respondent was in possession of cocaine while driving, was

subsequently diagnosed as suffering from a substance abuse problem

and Respondent left the Addictive Disease Unit at Charter Springs
Hospital against medical advice. I

11. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331 (1) (5), Florida Statutes, by being unable to practice
medicine with reasonable skill and safety to patients by reason of
illness or use of alcohol, drugs, narcotics, chemicals, or any
other type of material or as a result of any mental or physical
condition.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s license,
restriction of the Respondent’s practice, impOSition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this /2 day of

    

McPherson,
C 1ef Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.
Chief Medical Attorney F l L E D
Department of Professional Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street D a .
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750 ep "WE”!§L5¥:F::Z?ikﬁfgmaﬁon

Florida Bar #783643

   
 

iSH/jto L
pep: February 8, 1993 CLERK’
Rodriguez, Murray and Slade DATE

STATE OF FLORIDA'
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT or PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

PETITIONER,

vs. CASE NO. 9208955
DOUGLAS LOVE, H.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMIEIﬁIBAIIEE_QQMBLAlEI

COMES How the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as ”Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
Douglas Love, K.D., hereinafter referred to as ”Respondent,“ and
alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number HE 0045839. Respondent's luat known address is 7751
West Oakland Park Blvd., Sunrise, Florida 33351.

3. On or about August 9, 1990, Patient I1 presented to

Respondent following an automobile accident.

H

C.)
1*?

C)
(i.
C-

4. ‘On or about August 24, 1990, a Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Scan (MRI) revealed a Grade III tear of the hedial meniscus in
Patient [1’s right knee.

5. On or about October 5, 1990, Patient #1, a twenty—six
(26) year old female, presented to Respondent at Plantation General
Hospital for arthroscopic surgery for a tear of the medial meniscus
of her right knee.

6. In the course of the procedure Respondent severed Patient
{1'3 posterior neurovascular structures including: the popliteal
artery, popliteal veins, common perineal nerve and the posterior
tibial nerve.

7. The severing of Patient Il’s posterior neurovascular
structures resulted in an avascular right leg which required
immediate vascular surgical intervention.

8. Subsequently, Patient I1 has undergone several nerve
grafting operations, and suffers with a dysfunctional lower
extremity which later required amputation above the knee.

9. Respondent practiced medicine below the standard of care
by severing the arteries, veins and nerves serving Patient {1’s
lower right leg while performing arthroscopic surgery.

10. Reepondent’s medical records lacked basic requirements
including: family history, social history, and review of systems.
11. Respondent’s medical records of on or about October 5,
1990, lacked Patient [1’s neurovascular status, hiatory, and

physical exam. Furthermore, the operative report was brief, and

L)
("J
(L)
C)
I 3
0’1

tailed to‘EXplain the surgical procedures performed on or about
October 5, 1996?‘ I I
QQHHI_QEE

12. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through eleven (11), as if fully set forth in this Count One.

13. Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances in that Respondent severed the arteries, veins and
nerves serving Patient {1's lower right leg while performing
arthroscopic surgery.

14. Based on the aforementioned, Respondent violated Section
458.331 (1)(t), Florida Statutes, gross or repeated malpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances.

QQHEI_IEQ

15. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through eleven (11} and thirteen (13), as if fully set forth in
this Count Two.

16. Respondent is guilty of failing to keep written medical
records justifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including, but not limited to, patient histories, examination

results and test results in that Respondent's medical records

C!
I.

CC.
t' D
f ‘ 7'
r1

lacked bagfc requirements including: family history, social
history, reviei"ot systems, physical exams, neurovascular status,
and a complete operative report.

17. Based on the aforementioned, respondent violated Section
458.331 (1) (m), Florida Statutes, failing to keep written medical
records justifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results; records or drugs prescribed, dispensed, or
administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an
administrative tine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board
deems appropriate.

SIGNED this /2 day of

, 1993.

 
    

t, Secretary

 
 

. HcPhers
ief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Chief Medical Attorney

Department of Professional Regulation I l_ [E [:)

1940 North Monroe Street D

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792 epanme"‘°fp“”95“0”alR9gumuO

Florida Bar [788643 DEPUTY CLERK n

RPC/JTO

PCP: January 29, 1993 CLERK @« QZQMJ ,

Rodriguez, Murray and Slade DATE._._£2;:1;1:;2;2‘________
4

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,
PETITIONER,
vs. CASE NO. 89—07499, 89—07501 & 89-07502
Douglas Jonathan Love, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT
COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
DOUGLAS JONATHAN LOVE, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent,“ and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0045839. Respondent’s last known address is 7751
West Oakland Park Boulevard, Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33351—6703.

3. Respondent’s area of practice is orthopedics.

4. Pursuant to Section 766.111, Florida Statutes, no health
care provider licensed pursuant to Chapters 458, 459, 460, 461 or
466, Florida Statutes, shall order, procure, or administer

1

CL)

(.3
l\31
C 0

CD
(A.

unnecessary diagnostic tests, which are not reasonably calculated
to assist the health care provider in arriving at a diagnosis and
treatment of a patient’s condition.

5. On or about August 13, 1987, Patient #1, a twenty—three
(23) year—old female, was involved in a motor vehicle accident and
sustained soft tissue injuries to the axial skeleton.

6. Between on or about August 17, 1987 to March 2, 1989,
Patient #1 remained under Respondent’s care.

7. On or about August 17, 1987, Patient #1 first presented
to Restondent's office complaining of pain in her neck, left
shoulder and lower back. Respondent performed a physical
examination of Patient #1’5 cervical spine, dorsal spine, lumbar
spine and pelvis.

8. Respondent diagnosed Patient #1 with the following
conditions: cervical sprain; lumbosacral radiculopathy; contusion
of the shoulder; and thoracic/dorsal spine sprain. Respondent then
recommended that Patient #1 undergo a weekly physical therapy
treatment regimen at his office which was comprised of the
application of hot packs, electric stimulation, traction and
therapeutic massage.

9. Respondent’s medical records fail to document whether or
not Patient #1’5 physical therapy treatments were performed by a
licensed physical therapist.

10. Respondent also ordered Patient #1 to undergo the
following X-ray studies of the: cervical spine; thoracic/dorsal

spine; lumbosacral spine; pelvis; right shoulder; and left

C)
C.)
k.)

L.)
l\)

US)

AMENDED CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
Order has been provided by certified mail to Douglas J. Love, M.D.,
7751 w. Oakland Park Blvd., Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33351, and to Morton
J. Morris, Esq., 2500 Hollywood Blvd., Suite 212, Hollywood, FL
33020 and by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief
Medical Attorney, Department of Business and Professional
Regulation, 1010 North Monroe St., Tallahassee, FL 32399—0792 at
or before 5:00 p.m., this day of

1994.

 

shoulder. All X-rays proved negative for fracture or dislocation.

In addition, Respondent sold Patient #1 humerous physio—therapy

medical devices including a cervical pillow orthosis, cervical

collar, lumbosacral corset, lumbar pillow orthosis and a 4—leads

transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulator (TENS) unit. Respondent'
recommended that Patient #1 undergo total spine thermograms for

further evaluation.

11. On or about September 9, 1987, Patient #1 underwent a
series of thermograms per Respondent’s recommendation. These
thermographic studies were not indicated in the treatment of
Patient #1’3 condition given the fact that Patient #1 had
previously undergone a series of X-ray studies. Thermography is an
expensive treatment with no therapeutic or diagnostic value.

12. Respondent’s order for Patient #1 to undergo
thermographic studies which were not indicated in the treatment of
her condition constitutes unnecessary and excessive testing in
violation of the provisions of Section 766.111, Florida Statutes.

13. On or about November 2, 1987, Patient #1 presented to
Respondent for followup. Respondent ordered Patient #1 to undergo
a magnetic resonance imagery (MRI) scan of her lumbar spine.

14. On or about November 11, 1993, Patient #1 underwent a MRI
of her lumbar spine at West Broward Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Center (WBMRIC). Dr. Lenter interpreted Patient #1’5 MRI scan as
follows: findings at L3—L4 compatible with at least a bulging

annulus and suspicious for a small herniated nucleus pulposus.

3
0'“ Q".
UUOJQL

15. Respondent’s medical records fail to document a physical
examination or orthopedic evaluation to justify his order for
Patient #1 to undergo a MRI scan of the lumbar spine.

16. On or about November 27, 1987, Patient #1 presented to
Respondent for followup. Respondent ordered Patient #1 to undergo
a MRI of her cervical spine.

17. On or about December 8, 1987, Patient #1 underwent a MRI
of her cervical spine at WBMRIC. Dr. Storch interpreted Patient
#1’s MRI scan to be normal.

18. Respondent’s medical records fail to document a physical
examination or orthopedic evaluation to justify his order for
Patient #1 to undergo a MRI scan of the cervical spine.

19. On or about December 10, 1987, Patient #1 presented to
Respondent for followup. Respondent subsequently Charged Patient
#1 for an extended office visit. Respondent's medical records fail
to document a physical examination of Patient #1 to justify his
billing for this level of service. Specifically, Respondent’s
medical records of this encounter consist of a synopsis of prior
studies and a recommendation for Patient #1 to continue with her
physical therapy treatments.

20. On or about March 2, 1989, Respondent discharged Patient
#1 with a final diagnosis of cervical sprain, ,cervical
radiculopathy, dorsal spine sprain, lumbar disc herniation at L3-
L4, and lumbar radiculopathy. Upon discharge, Respondent assigned

Patient #1 a permanent disability rating of 12%.

QQHQL_QD§

21. Petitioner realleges and incorpotates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty (20) as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

22. Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of Patient #1 in that
Respondent’s medical records fail to document whether or not
Patient #1’5 physical therapy treatments were performed by a
licensed physical therapist. Respondent’s medical records fail to
document a physical examination or orthopedic evaluation to justify
his orders for Patient #1 to undergo a MRI scans of the lumbar
spine and cervical Spine.

23. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, failing to keep written
medical records justifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or
administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations.

Count Two

24. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty (20) and twenty-two (22) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

25. Respondent failed to perform any statutory or legal
obligation placed upon a licensed physician in that Respondent’s
order for Patient #1 to undergo thermographic studies which were

not indicated in the treatment of her condition constitutes

unnecessary and excessive testing in violation of the provisions of
Section 766.111, Florida Statutes.

26. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(g), Florida Statutes, failing to perform any
statutory or legal obligation placed upon a licensed physician by
violating the provisions of Section 766.111, Florida Statutes.

Count Three

27. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty (20), twenty—two (22), and twenty—five (25) as if
fully set forth herein this Count Three.

28. Respondent exercised influence on the patient or client
in such a manner as to exploit the patient or client for financial
gain in that, on or about December 10, 1987, Respondent charged
Patient #1 for an extended office visit. However, Respondent’s
medical records fail to document a physical examination or
orthopedic evaluation of Patient #1 to justify his billing for this
level of service. Specifically, Respondent's medical records of
this encounter consist of a synopsis of prior studies and a
recommendation for Patient #1 to continue with her physical therapy
treatments.

29. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(n), Florida Statutes, exercising influence on
the patient or client in such a manner as to exploit the ﬁatient or
client for financial gain of the licensee or of a third party,
which shall include, but not be limited to, the promoting or

selling of services, goods, appliances, or drugs.

Facts Pertaining_to Patient i;

30. On or about June 28, 1988, Patient #1, a twenty—five (25)
year-old female, sustained various musculoskeletal injuries in a
motor Vehicle accident.

31. Between on or about July 14, 1988, and on or about March
24, 1990, Patient #1 was under Respondent’s care.

32. On or about July 14, 1988, Patient #1 first presented to
Respondent complaining of headaches, pain and stiffness in the neck
with pain shooting down both upper extremities, pain and stiffness
in the mid back, pain and stiffness in the lower back with pain
shooting down both lower extremities as well as pain and stiffness
with restriction of range of motion about the left wrist.

33. Respondent performed a physical examination of Patient #1
and diagnosed her with the following conditions:‘ cervical sprain;
cervical radiculopathy; lumbosacral radiculopathy; lumbar sprain;
thoracic/dorsal spine sprain; possible dorsal carpal fracture, both
wrists; and a contusion, right knee with possible internal
derangement.

34. Respondent then ordered Patient #1 to undergo a series of
X—ray studies including X—rays of her cervical spine,
thoracic/dorsal spine, lumbosacral spine, pelvis, left wrist, right
wrist and left elbow. All X—rays proved negative for fracture or
dislocation. Respondent also sold Patient #1 numerous physio—
therapy medical devices including a cervical collar, cervical
pillow, lumbosacral corset, lumbosacral pillow, right wrist splint

and left wrist splint.

35. In addition, Respondent prescribed Darvocet and Flexiril
for pain relief. Respondent rented Patient #1 a 4-1eads
transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulator (TENS) unit and
recommended that she begin physical therapy.

36. On or about ‘July 28, 1988, Patient #1 presented to
Respondent for followup. Respondent ordered Patient #1 to undergo
a series of thermographic studies including studies of her cervical
spine, thoracic spine and lumbar spine. These thermographic
studies were not indicated in the treatment of Patient #1’5
condition given the fact that Patient #1 had previously undergone
a series at negative X—ray studies. Thermography is a technique
wherein an infrared camera is used to photographically portray the
surface temperature of the body, based on the self—emahating
infrared radiation; sometimes employed as a means of diagnosing
underlying pathologic processes. Thermography is an expensive
treatment with no therapeutic value.

37. On or about August 19, 1988, Patient #1 underwent a
series of thermographic studies per Respondent’s recommendation.
Respondent subsequently billed Patient #1 $950 for these studies.

38. Patient #1’5 thermograms reflect C6 nerve fiber
dysfunction; normal thoracic thermogram; and 81 nerve fiber
dysfunction.

39. Respondent’s order for Patient #1 to undergo a series of
thermographic studies which were not indicated in the treatment of
her condition constitutes unnecessary and excessive testing,

contrary to the provisions of Section 766.111, Florida Statutes.

ti)
tJ

.
r.- 1

(I )
L'J
.’

40. On or about September 28, 1988, Patient #1 presented to
Dr. Baker at Broward General Medical Center and underwent an air
contrast arthrogram of her right knee which proved negative. An
arthrogram is an X—ray of a joint after injection of opaque
contrast material.

41. On or about October 7, 1988, Patient #1 underwent a
magnetic resonance imagery (MRI) scan of her right knee. Dr. Kagan
reviewed Patient #1'5 MRI scan and noted an effusion in the
suprapatellar bursa. Dr. Kagan, however, found no evidence of
ligamentous or meniscal and no evidence of a cartilaginous or
subchondral lesion.

42. On or about October 17, 1988, Patient #1 presented to
Respondent for follow up. Respondent aspirated 20 cc’s of
serosanguineous fluid from Patient #1’5 right knee at that time.

43. On or about March 24, 1989, Respondent discharged Patient
#1 when she reached maximal medical improvement. Respondent
awarded Patient #1 with a 10% permanent, partial impairment to her
right lower extremity at that time.

COUNT FOUR

44. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through four (4), and thirty (30) through forty—three (43) as if
fully set forth herein this Count Four.

45. Respondent failed to perform any statutory or legal
obligation placed upon a licensed physician in that Respondent
Respondent's order for Patient #1 to undergo a series of

thermographic studies which were not indicated in the treatment of

F57 '” "

L‘QH‘.._».-

her condition constitutes unnecessary and excessive testing in
violation of the provisions of Section 766.111, Florida Statutes.
These thermographic studies were not indicated in the treatment of
Patient #1’5 condition given the fact that Patient #1 had
previously undergone a series of negative X—ray studies.

46. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(g), Florida Statutes, failing to perform any
statutory or legal obligation placed upon a licensed physician by
violating the provisions of Section 766.111, Florida Statutes.

Facts Pertaininq to Patient #3

47. On or about December 19, 1987, Patient #1, a twenty—two
(22) year—old male, sustained various injuries in a motor vehicle
accident.

48. On or about December 22, 1987, Patient #1 first presented
to Respondent complaining of headaches as well as pains in his leg,
back and neck.

49. Respondent performed a physical examination of Patient #1
and diagnosed him with the following conditions: cervical sprain;
thoraciC/dorsal spine sprain; lumbosacral radiculopathy; sprain,
left shoulder; and internal derangement, right knee.

50. Respondent then ordered Patient #1 to undergo the
following diagnostic studies: X—rays of the cervical, dorsal and
lumbar spine; X—rays of the pelvis, right knee and left shoulder;
magnetic resonance imagery (MRI) scan of the right knee; and
thermography of the total spine. Respondent recommended that

Patient #1 undergo weekly physical therapy treatments at his office

10

r: ... -- ’1 (j. —r

which included the application of hot packs and electrical
stimulation. Respondent also sold Patient #1 numerous medical
devices including a cervical collar, cervical pillow, lumbosacral
corset, lumbosacral pillow, hinged knee brace, arm sling and a 4—
leads transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulator (TENS) unit.

51. On or about December 26, 1987, Patient #1 underwent
thermographic studies of his spine per Respondent’s order.
Thermography has no recognized therapeutic or diagnostic value.

52. On or about January 5, 1988, Patient #1 underwent a MRI
scan of his right knee per Respondent’s order. Dr. Rivera reviewed
the scaBn and formed the following impression: grade II tear of
the posterior horn of the medial meniscus.

53. On or about January 18, 1988, Patient #1 presented to
Respondent for followup. Respondent subsequently billed Patient #1
for an extended office visit and a range of motion test.

54. Respondent’s medical records fail to document a level of
service consistent with his charges for an extended office visit.
In addition, Respondent's medical records fail to document a range
of motion test.

55. On or about January 22, 1988, Patient #1 underwent
arthroscopic surgery on his right knee by Respondent at Plantation
General Hospital (PGH).

56. Intraoperatively, Respondent performed the following
arthroscopic procedures on Patient #1'3 right knee: arthroscopic
surgery with shaving of cartilage and synovium; partial medial

meniscectomy; removal of loose bodies; chondroplasty and shaving of

11

medial femoral condyle; shaving of cartilage and synovium and
partial synovectomy.

57. Respondent subsequently unbundled the charges for Patient
#l’s arthroscopic procedure(s) and billed Patient #1 for a total of
$8,750.00 (i.e., Respondent charged for each procedure on an
individual basis for maximal financial reimbursement). Respondent
charged Patient #1 for a variety of procedures which are usually
done at the same time and should not be charged individually.

58. In addition, Patient #1 had no history of prior
significant knee disease. Respondent reportedly found loose bodies
and other significant pathologic entities within the knee.
Respondent surgically treated all these pathologic entities
aggressively. However, there are no pathologic specimens to either
refute or concur with the pathology. Specifically, the MRI scan of
Patient #1’5 right knee showed only a grade II tear of the meniscus
which did not even extend to the meniscal surface. There were no
other findings in the knee on the MRI scan that confirmed the
existence of any of the aforementioned pathologic entities in
Patient #l’s knee as would be expected.

59. Patient #1 was excessively overcharged by Respondent for
a condition which cannot be proven to exist.

60. On or about January 25, 1988, Patient #1 presented to
Respondent for followup. Respondent subsequently billed Patient #1
for an extended office visit and a range of motion test.

61. Respondent’s medical records fail to document a level of

service consistent with his Charges for an extended office visit.

12

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS DPR CASE NOS. 92-17193
AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION, 92—08955
89-007499
Petitioner, 89-007501
89-007502

vs.

DOUGLAS J. LOVE, M.D.,

Respondent.

CONSENT AGREEMENT

Douglas Love, M.D., referred to as the “Respondent", and
the Department of Business and Professional Regulation, referred to
as "Department", stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and
to the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to
as "Board", incorporating the stipulated Facts and stipulated

Disposition in this matter.
STIPULATED FACTS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a
licensed physician in the State of Florida having been issued
license number ME 0045839.

2. Respondent was charged by Administrative Complaints
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules enacted
pursuant thereto. True and correct copies of the Administrative
Complaints are attached hereto as Composite Exhibit A.

1

000801:-

In addition, Respondent’s medical records fail to document a range
of motion test.
COUNT FIVE

62. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through three (3), and forty—seven (47) through sixty-one (61) as
if fully set forth herein this Count Five.

63. Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of Patient #1 in that, on or
about January 18, 1988, and again on or about January 25, 1988,
Patient #1 presented to Respondent for followup office visits. On
both occasions, Respondent subsequently billed Patient #1 for
extended office visits and range of motion tests. However,
Respondent's medical records fail to document a level of service
consistent with his charges for extended office Visits. In
addition, Respondent’s medical records fail to document range of
motion tests.

64. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, failing to keep written
medical records justifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or
administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations.

COUNT S I X

65. Petitioner realleqes and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

through three (3), forty—seven (47) through sixty—one (61), and

sixt —three (63) as if fully set forth herein this Count Six.
Y

13

(nun.

‘4‘»...

66. Respondent exercised influence on Patient #1 in such a
manner as to exploit Patient_ #1 for financial gain in that
Respondent unbundled the charges for Patient #1’5 arthroscopic
procedure and billed Patient #1 for a total of $8,750.00 (i.e.,
Respondent charged for each procedure on an individual basis for
maximal financial reimbursement). Respondent charged Patient #1
for a variety of procedures which are usually done at the same time
and should not be charged individually.

67. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Sectioh 458.331(1)(n), Florida Statutes, exercising influence on
the patient or client in such a manner as to exploit the patient or
client for financial gain of the licensee or of a third party,
which shall include, but not be limited to, the promoting or
selling of services, goods, appliances, or drugs.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board
deems appropriate.

SIGNED this __/__/ day of W, 1993.

FILED

Department of Professional Regulation

Larry G. herson, Jy
DEPUTY CLER , Chie Medical Attorne

George Stuart, cretary

      

 

    

CLERK I ,
ENE 1 4

.A , H
.t0 !. =L

‘Jvu;

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Chief Medical Attorney

Department of Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750
Florida Bar #788643

RCP/rb

PCP: April 16, 1993

Rodriguez, Murray and Slade

15

STATE OF FLORIDA '
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF BUSiNESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,
PETITIONER,
vs. CASE NO. 92—05489
DOUGLAS JONATHAN LOVE, M.D.,

RESPONDENT.

ADMlNiSTRATiVE COMPLAINT

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Business and Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this Administrative
Complaint before the Board of Medicine against Douglas Jonathan Love, M.D.,
hereinafter referred to as "Respondent,“ and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the practice of
medicine pursuant to Section 20.165, Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Fiorida Statutes;
and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto a licensed physician
in the State of Florida, having been issued license number ME 0045839.
Respondent’s last known address is 7751 W. Oakland Park Boulevard, Ft. Lauderdale,
Florida 33351-6703.

3. Respondent is Board Certified in Orthopedic Surgery.

4. On or about May 17, 1989, Patient U.M., a nineteen (19) yea( old female,
was seen by the Respondent at Humana Hospital Benhett in Plantation, Florida, after
being involved in an automobile accident in which she sustained a comminuted mid-
shaft fracture of the femur.

5. Respondent placed a Steinmann Pin, a surgical nail insened in bones for
skeletal traction, in the fractured leg and placed Patient U.M. on skeletal traction for
a period of 4 1/2 months.

6. In or about 1989, the accepted treatment for the type fracture suffered by
Patient U.M. was the use of intramedullary interlocking (0d (a method of holding a
fractured bone in proper alignment by means of a metal pin or nail in the marrow
cavity) for a comminuted femur fracture.

7. On or about July 26, 1989, Patient U.M.’s famHy requested a second
opinion which recommended additional treatment in a conservative manner followed
by either "a hip spica" (orthopedic cast encasing part of the trunk and immobilizing
an extremity) or a pelvic traction band and femur brace.

8. On or about September 28, 1989, Respondent removed Patient U.M. from
traction, the Steinmann Pin was removed, a high/low cast was applied, an
electromagnetic stimuiator was ordered for Patient U.M. to use at home for delayed
union of the fracture and Patient U.M. was discharged home.

9. On or about May 31, 1990, Patient U.M. presented to a subsequent treating

physician, while she was still in a cast and confined to a wheelchair.

10. The subsequent treating physician initially changed Patient 1’s treatment
to a hinged brace. Patient U.M, had very poor range bf motien of the knee and was
treated with arthroscopic evaluation and quadriceps plasty (upper thigh muscle
surgery involving piastic surgery techniques) on or about January of 1991.

11. In or about April of 1992, Patient underwent a secondary arthroscopic
procedure by the subsequest treating physician for reiease of scar tissue and
improvement of range of motion of the knee.

12. Respondent failed to dictate Patient U.M.’s history and physicai

examination and discharge summary until on or about May 30, 1990.
COUNT ONE

13. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1) through twelve
(12), as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

14. Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or the failure to
practice medicine with that level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by
a reasonabiy prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar conditions
and circumstances in that Respondent failed to appropriately treat Patient U.M.’s
femur fracture in that appropriate consultations were not obtained and Respondent did
not utilize the accepted method of fixing the fracture.

15. Based on the foregoing, Respondentvioiated Section 458.331 (1 )(t), Florida

Statutes, by guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or the failure to practice medicine

r":
r-)
.

with that level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under simiiar conditions and

circumstances.

COUNT TWO

16. Petitioner reaiieges and incorporates paragraphs one (1) through twelve
(12) and fourteen (14), as if fully set forth herein this Count Two.

17. Respondent is guilty of failing to keep written medical records justifying
the course of treatment of the patient, including. but not limited to. patient histories;
examination results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or
administered; reports of consultations and hospitalizations, in that Respondent failed
to justify Patient U.M.‘s course of treatment and failed to dictated Patient U.M.’s
history and physical examination and discharge summary in a timely manner.

18. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section 458,331(1)(m),
Florida Statutes, by failing to keep written medical records justifying the course of
treatment of the patient, including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or administered; reports
of consultations and hospitaiizations.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of Medicine enter
an Order imposing one or more of the following penaities: revocation or suspension

of the Respondent’s license, restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an

FnW-‘I’f
vgs'ﬂ “

administrative ﬁne, issuance of a reprimand, p|acement of the Respondent on

probation, and/or any other relief that the Board deems appropriate.

SlGNED this 34 day of W 1993.

   

. McPherson, Jr.
- ef Medical Attorney

   

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.
Department of Business and Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750

Florida Bar #788643 F l L E D ‘
RPC/MLM Department 01 Business and Protessionat Regulation
PCP: September 16, 1993 DEPUTY CLERK

Murray and Slade

Cmon WW“
1.

m_jiﬂl.

STATE OF FLORIDA .
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,

PETITIONER,

VS. CASE NO. 9216394

DOUGLAS JONATHAN LOVE, M.D.,

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMLNISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

 

COMES Now the Petitioner, Department of Business and
Professional Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner,“
and files this Administrative Complaint before the Board of
Medicine against Douglas Jonathan Love, M.D. hereinafter referred
to as "Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the
practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.165, Florida Statutes;
Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto a
licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0045839. Respondent’s last known address is 7751
West Oakland Park Boulevard, Fort Lauderdale, FL 33351—6703.

3. On or about January 24, 1992, Patient M.L. was involved in
an automobile accident, injuring his neck, ribs, back, head, and

shoulder.

 

4. On or about February 19, 1992, Patient M.L. began
treatment with Respondent for the injuries fesulting from the
automobile accident’

5. Respondent performed a physical examination of Patient
M.L., however he failed to document objective numbers used in
describing ranges of motion which are the basis for continued
treatment.

6. Respondent prescribed drugs in excessive and inappropriate
amounts, and with too frequent a basis considering the type and
severity of the injuries presented by Patient M.L., and the
documentation with respect to prescription amounts was sporadic.

7. Between February 1992 and August 1992, Respondent
prescribed the following drugs to Patient M.L.: (1) Oxycodone/ASA,
#30 tablets; (2) Roxiprin 4.5/325, #30 tablets; (3) Ampicillin
500mg, #30 capsules; (4) APAP/Propoxnapsy, #30; (5) Percocet—S,
#30; (6) Oxycodone with aspirin, #60 tablets; (7) Oxycodone with
APAP, #90; (8) Hydrocodone with APAP, #60; (9) Halcion 0.25, #10
tablets; (10) Cephalexin 500mg, #30 capsules; (11) Vicodin ES, #110
tablets; (12) Carisoprodol 350mg, #150 tablets; (13) Diazepam 5mg,
#30; and (14) Diazepam 10mg, #475 tablets.

8. Oxycodone is a Schedule II controlled substance listed in
Chapter 893, Florida Statutes. This drug has a high potential for
abuse, and could lead to severe physical or psychological
addiction.

9. Percocet is a legend drug as defined by Section

465.003(7), Florida Statutes, and contains Oxycodone HCI, a

CD

.. 'J

L
u)
x
L
K9

3. Respondent is under further investigation of the
Department in DBPR case numbers 91-0W3, '92—16'394, 92—05489, 93-
02655, 93-02480, 93-07329, 93-08802, 93—17278 and 93—22694. The
Respondent hereby waives a finding of probable cause in these cases
so that the Board of Medicine may take final agency action. The
Respondent understands that the waiver of probable cause in these
matters operates to make these matters public records, regardless
of the Board’s action on the Consent Agreement. The Respondent
waives confidentiality in this case and authorizes the Board to
review the case materials, including all records included in the
case, in conjunction with the consideration of this Consent
Agreement.

4. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations

of fact contained in the Administrative Complaint.
STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a
licensed physician, he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455
and 458, Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department
and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
attached Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute

violations of Chapters 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the

Administrative Complaint.

r.__ -

(I)
C3
C3
(:3)
C

(

Schedule II controlled substance listed in Chapter 893, Florida
Statutes. This drug has a high potential fbr abdse, and could lead
to severe physical or psychological addiction.

10. Roxiprin is a legend drug as defined by Section
465.003(7), Florida Statutes, and contains Oxycodone, a Schedule II
controlled substance listed in Chapter 893, Florida Statutes. This
drug has a high potential for abuse, and could lead to severe
physical or psychological addiction.

11. Hydrocodone is a Schedule II controlled substance listed
in Chapter 893, Florida Statutes. This drug has a high potential
for abuse, and could lead to severe physical or psychological
addiction.

12. Vicodin ES is a legend drug as defined by Section
465.003(7), Florida Statutes, and contains Hydrocodone, a Schedule
II controlled substance listed in Chapter 893, Florida Statutes.
This drug has a high potential for abuse, and could lead to severe
physical or psychological addiction.

l3. Diazepam is a Schedule IV controlled substance listed in
Chapter 893, Florida Statutes.

14. Carisoprodol is a legend drug as defined by Section
465.003(7), Florida Statutes.

15. Halcion is a legend drug as defined by Section
465.003(7), Florida Statutes, and contains triazolam, a Schedule IV
controlled substance listed in Chapter 893, Florida Statutes.

16. Cephalexin is a legend drug as defined by Section

465.003(7), Florida Statutes.

ﬂgifjh

17. Respondent failed to document in Patient M.L.’s medical
records an adequate justification for the course of treatment and
progress of Patient M.L., and continued a course of drug treatment
which was not resolving the paitient's medical problem.

18. Respondent failed to refer Patient M.L. for neurologic
evaluation, or to a pain treatment center, or for a second
orthopedic opinion, as would have been appropriate considering
Patient M.L.’s medical history.

Count one

19. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through eighteen (18) as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

21. Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances in that Respondent failed to provide Patient M.L.
with an appropriate course of treatment and Respondent failed to
provide Patient M.L. with the proper recommendations and referrals.

22. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(t), Florida statutes, in that he is guilty of gross or
repeated malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that
level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a
reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable uhéer

similar conditions and circumstances.

(1":“1‘r7 a

Count Two

23. Petitioner realleges and incorpotates paragraphs one (1)
through nineteen (19) and twenty—one (21) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

24. Respondent is guilty of prescribing, dispensing,
administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing a legend drug,
including any controlled substance, other than in the course of the
physician’s professional practice in that Respondent prescribed
numerous and various legend drugs, including controlled substances
with high potentials for abuse, to Patient M.L. without the
documentation to justify the course of treatment, and in excessive
doses at too frequent intervals.

25. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(q), Florida Statutes, in that he is guilty of
prescribing, dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise
preparing a legend drug, including any controlled substance, other
than in the course of the physician’s professional practice. For
the purposes of this paragraph, it shall be legally presumed that
prescribing, dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise
preparing legend drugs, including all controlled substances,
inappropriately or in excessive or inappropriate quantities is not
in the best interest of the patient and is not in the course of the

physician’s professional practice, without regard to his intent.

rnncrw

Count Three

26. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through nineteen (19), twenty-one (21), and twenty—four (24) as if
fully set forth herein this Count Three.

27. Respondent is guilty of failing to keep written medical
records. justifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or
administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations in
that Respondent failed to document adequate medical records
justifying the course of treatment and progress of Patient M.L.;
and failed to document objective numbers used in describing ranges
of motion which are the basis for continued treatment of Patient
M.L..

28. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, in that he is guilty of failing to
keep written medical records justifying the course of treatment of
the patient, including, but not limited to, patient histories;
examination results; test results; records of drugs prescribed,
dispensed, or administered; and reports of consultations and
hospitalizations.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s license,
restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an

administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

(".T)
C)
L' J

1))

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this 2?- day of @m , 1993.

George Stuar Secretary

   

  

Larr G. dministerin
Ch' f Medical Attorney

I

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry C. Administering, Jr.

Chief Medical Attorney

Department of Business and Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750

Florida Bar #788643

RPC/mry

PCP: September 16, 1993

Murray and Slade

FILED

lbgaﬂmentofBusmessandPromsmonaIReguhﬁon
AGENCY CLERK

W $14.14 25’. um”

Daﬁ—ML

STIPULATED DISPOSITION

l. FUTURE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the
future violate Chapters 455, 458, and 893, Florida Statutes, or the
rules promulgated pursuant thereto. Prior to signing this
agreement, the Respondent read Chapters 455, 458 and 893 and the
Rules of the Board of Medicine in Section 61 F6, Florida
Administrative Code.

2. ELEE. The Board shall impose an administrative
fine in the amount of $15,000.00 against the Respondent. The fine
shall be paid by the Respohdent to the Board of Medicine prior to
reinstatement of his license to practice medicine in the State of
Florida (see below).

3. REPRIMAND. The Respondent shall receive a
reprimand from the Board of Medicine.

4. SUSPENSION. Effective from the date of the
Emergency Suspension Order entered in the cause, January 25, 1993,
Respondent’s license to practice medicine shall be placed on
suspension for a period of two (2) years.

A. CONDITIONS OF REINSTATEMENT. Respondent Shall
attend ten (10) hours of Category I Continuing Medical Education in
Risk Management, twenty (20) hours of Category I Continuing Medical
Education in Non-Surgical Orthopedics, ten (10) hours of Category
I Continuing Medical Education in Utilization Review and an
additional twenty (20) hours of Category I Continuing Medical

Education in Miscellaneous Orthopedic courses, for a total of sixty

000005

(60) hours of Category I Continuing Medical Education, during the
two years of the suspension. Respondent shall submit a written
plan to the Chairman of the Board for approval prior to the
completion of said continuing education hours; except any courses
taken during the emergency suspension but prior to a final order
may be submitted to the chairman for retroactive approval. The
Board confers authority on the Chairman of the Board to approve or
disapprove said continuing education hours. In addition,
Respondent shall submit documentation in the form of copies of the
receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other papers,‘ such as
physician’s recognition awards, documenting completion of these
medical education courses prior to reinstatement of Respondent’s
license to practice medicine in the State of Florida. All such
documentation shall be sent to the Board of Medicine, regardless of
whether some or agy_of such documentation was previously provided
durigg the course of any_§udit or discussion with counsel for the
Department. These hours shall be in addition to those hours
required for renewal of licensure. Unless otherwise approved by
the Board, said continuing medical education courses shall consist
of formal, live lecture format.

5. PROBATION. Immediately'upon the reinstatement of
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of Florida,
Respondent’s license to practice medicine shall be placed on
probation for a maximum period of five (5) years. After three (3)
years, Respondent may petition. the Board to terminate said

probation which shall be granted if Respondent can demonstrate by

00032-7

clear and convincing evidence that Respohdent can practice with
skill and safety without the terms of probation. The purpose of
probation is not to prevent the Respondent from practicing
medicine. Rather, probation is a supervised education experience
designed by the Board to make the Respondent aware of certain
obligations to his patients and the profession. To this_end,
during the period of probation, Respondent shall comply with the
following obligations and requirements:

A. OBLIGATIONS[§ES_T_RICTIONS__QKEQUIREHENTS OF
PROBATION. During the period of probation, Respondent shall comply
with the following obligations and requirements:

i. Upon reinstatement of Respondent ’5 license
to practice medicine in the State of Florida, Respondent shall be
restricted from performing major orthopedic surgical procedures
within his practice. For the purposes of this restriction, "Major
Orthopedic Procedures" is defined as any open surgical procedures
fo; the purposes of osteotomies, bone or major skin grafts, open
reduction of fractures (with or without the use of internal
fixation), arthroplasties, or placement of internal prosthetic
joints or devices, including arthroscopic procedures performed for
the above purposes. After a reasonable period, Respondent may
petition the Board of Medicine for the removal of this restriction
and at such time the Board may remove the same upon a finding that
Respondent can perform such procedures with skill and safety or the

Board shall advise Respondent what, if any, actions on his part

 

will demonstrate his renewed ability to perform such major
orthopedic surgical procedures.

ii. INDIRECT SUPERVISION. Respondentshall
practice only under the indirect supervision of a Board-approved
physician, to be selected by Respondent and who shall hereinafter
be referred to as the "supervisor". In this regard, Respondent
shall allow the supervisor access to Respondent’s medicél records,
calendar, patient logs or other documents necessary for the monitor
to supervise Respondent as detailed below.

iii. Respondent shall appear before the
Probation Committee of the Board of Medicine at the first Committee
meeting after probation commences; at the last meeting of the
Committee preceding termination of the probation; and once every
six (6) months during the probationary period. However, after the
first two (2) years of probation are complete, Respondent may
petition the Probation Committee to have such appearances reduced
to an annual basis. Respondent shall be noticed by the Board staff
or the date, time and place of the Committee meeting whereat
Respondent’s appearance is required. Failure of Respondent to
appear as requested or directed shall be considered a violation of
the terms of this Agreement, and shall subject the Respondent to
disciplinary action.

B. PHYSICIAN’S RECOVERY NETWORK.

i. Respondent shall participate in and comply

with the Florida Physician’s Recovery Network (PRN). Respondent

shall enter into an after care contract with the PRN for a term of

TIF‘. ‘1

0531.1ou

