FILED

Department of Professional Regulation

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATIQBEPUTY CLERK

 

 

BOARD OF MEDICINE 4’ _ .1 ,,M
CLERK ‘ ‘-4f—-———‘—‘
A/r/(?" 1
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL DATE
REGULATION,
Petitioner,
-vs— DPR CASE NUMBER: 89—13400

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0012371
DAVID L. MACKEY, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

EgghL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on April 3,
1993, in Plantation, Florida, for consideration of a Consent
Agreement (attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the
parties in the above—styled case. Upon consideration of the
Consent Agreement, the documents submitted in support thereof,
the arguments of the parties, and being otherwise advised in the
premises, the Board amended the Consent Agreement proposed, which
amendment was accepted without objection by the parties.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and hereby is approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein with the following change:

Paragraph 3 Of the Stipulated Disposition is amended to
read: Respondent shall receive a Leter of Concern from the Beard
of Medicine.

Accordingly, the parties Shall adhere to and abide by the

terms and conditions of the Consent Agreement as amended.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department of ProfessionaL Regulation.

DONE AND ORDERED this 2 day of Ajﬂﬂ: / , 1993.

BOARD OF MED INE

 

 

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to David L.
Mackey, M.D., 800 West Morse Boulevard, Suite 5, winter Park,
Florida 32789—3780, Christopher D. Rolle, Esquire, Post Office
Box 2193, Orlando, Florida 32802—2193, and by interoffice
delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney,
Department of Professional Regulation, 1940 North Monroe Street,
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, at or before 5:00 P.M., this

day of 1993-

 

AprilOrders 93

17. Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances in that Respondent failed to inform a patient of an
abnormality of the lung which had been revealed to Respondent by
a chest x-ray and failed to order the appropriate follow—up studies
and treatment.

18. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, in that Respondent is guilty of
gross or repeated malpractice or the failure to practice medicine
with that level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized
by a reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under
similar conditions and circumstances.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

ﬂ 4

x22,” //
day of »’/6QZZE/fh 1992.

I ’ I

In
4
C)
:/
m
U
rt
3
H
(n

 

 

COUNSEL FOR DE?..RIﬂENI:

Larry G. McPherson, 3:.

Chief Medical Attorney

Department of Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe StrEEt

Tallahassee, Floriia 32399—0750
Florida Bar ¢7SSG43

CJR/db/adb

PCP: March 23, 1992r

McEwen, Kaiser, Dau

 

U}

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
v.
DPR Case No. 89-13400
DAVID L. MACKEY, .\'I.D.

Respondent.

QQNSEN’I‘ AGREEMENT

DAVID L. MACKEY, M.D., referred to as the "Respondent," and the Department
of Professional Regulation, referred to as "Department," stipulate and agree to the following
Agreement and t0 the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine. referred to as
"Board," incorporating the Stipulated Facts and Stipulated Disposition in this matter.

STIPULATED FACTS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed physician in the State of
Florida having been issued license number ME 0012371.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint filed by the Department
and properly served upon Respondent with violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and
the rules enacted pursuant thereto, A true and correct copy of the Administrative
Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit ".A'

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of fact contained in the

Administrative Complaint.

STIPUIATFD CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. Respondent admits That, in his cupuchy as a Licensed physician, he is subject 10
the provisions Of Chapters 455 and 458‘ Florida Smtmes, and the jurisdiction of the
Department and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the Administrative Complaint, if
proven, would constitute violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the
Corrected Amended Administrative Complaint.

STIPULATED DISPOSITION

1. FUTURE (TOW Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters 455,
458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated pursuant thereto.

2. M. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in the amount of $1,500.00
against the Respondent. The fine shall be paid by the Respondent to the Board of
Medicine within ninety (90) days of its imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. BEPRIMAND. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand from the Board of
Medicine.

4. OBHGA'I‘IDNSjREQL‘iREk-IENTS. Within one (1) year of the filing of the Final
Order incorporating the terms of this Agreemem, Respondent shall attend five (5) hours of
Category 1 CME in Risk Managemem‘ In addition. Respondent shall submit documentation
in the form of certified copies of receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other papers, such as the
physician’s recognition awards issued by the American Medical Association as may be
necessary to document completion of these continuing medical education courses within one

(1) year of the entry of the Final Order in this matter. AH Such d0curnent_a[i0n shall be sent

 

t0 the Board of Medicine, Attn: Final Order Conmiiance Section regardless of whether
some or am of such documentation was previously provided during the course of any audit
orgiscussion with counsel for the Department. These hours shall be in addition to those
hours required for renewal of Iicensure. Unless otherwise approved by the Board, said
continuing education courses shall consist of :1 formal live lecture format. In the event that
Respondent faiis to timely document completion of the continuing medical education course,
Respondent’s license to practice medicine shall be suspended until such time as
documentation of completion is received by the Board.

5. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject to the approval of the
Board and the Department. In this regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing
paragraphs) shall have no force and effect unless a Final Order incorporating the terms of
this Agreement is entered by the Board.

6. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting of the Board where this
Agreement is considered. Respondent, in conjunction with the consideration of this
Agreement by the Board, shall respond to questions under oath from the Board, Board Staff
or Department Staff.

7. Respondent shall demonstrate at the time of his appearance before the Board
that he has altered his Office procedures so that diagnostic tests will be followed up.

8. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by the Respondent may be used as direct evidence against
the Respondent in any proceeding; however, such statements may be used by the Petitioner

for impeachment purposes.

9. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this joint Agreement and
subsequent Final Order incorporating same will in no way preclude additional proceedings
by the Board and/or the Department against the Respondent for acts or omissions not
specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit ”A” herein.

10. Upon the Board‘s adoption of this Agreement, Respondent expressly waives all
further procedural steps and expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to
otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Agreement.

11. Upon the Board’s adoption ofthis Agreement, the parties hereby agree that each
party will beat his own attorney’s fees and costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this
matter. Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney’s fees or costs from the
Department in connection with this matter.

12. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the purpose of avoiding
further administrative action with respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent
authorizes the Board to review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the Agreement. Furthermore,
should this joint Agreement not he accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to

and consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by the Board shall

r101 unfairly 0r illegally prejudice the Board or any of its members from further participation,
consideration or resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED this iﬁuy of ﬂxu <54 , 1993.

AuQ/ﬂ /z((uy% 4A
DAVID L. MACKEY, M. .
Before melupersonally a cared X0111 ﬂgzuéf 77”} ,whose identity
is known to me by 12' (25% 22A; g1ﬂa 5 “ (type of dentification) and who,

under oath. acknowledges [hut his} er signazure appears above.

 

Sworn to and subscribed before me misgﬁday

of @4490. 1993.

(/2 E/ M mm}. SEAL
' ET mnsca
,, QTARYPUBLIC “,Z'Simmmmm
My Commission Expires: V’qﬂéf I: 775134 nay 27.1993

 

6amm; No. cc 2343!!

George Stuart
Secretary

  

 

   

By: / Lay G. ' PhersonJr‘
C ief Attorney
Medical Section

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

PETITIONER,

VS. CASE NO. 89-013400

DAVID L. MACKEY, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

N S V CO INT

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
DAVID L. MACKEY, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent," and
alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the
practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida Statutes;
Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number KB 0012371. Respondent's last known address is 800
West Morse Boulevard, Suite 5, Winter Park, Florida, 32789—3780.

3. From on or about April 9, 1985 through on er about April
18, 1985, Respondent treated Patient [1, a fifty-nine (59) year old
female, for injuries to her left hip sustained as a result of a

fall at work.

4. On or about April 9, 1985, Patient #1 was admitted to the
hospital with complaints diagnosed as displaced subcapltal fracture
of the left hip. Tests and treatment included, among other things,
chest x-rays.

5. On or about April 10, 1985, Respondent performed a closed

manipulative reduction and interval fixation of the fracture with

four (4) Knowles pins. The orthopedic surgical procedure was
successful.
6. The admission chest x-ray revealed a 10m area of soft

nodular infiltration in the left lung which Respondent documented

~

in his discharge summary.
7. The radiologist recommended in his report that a follow—

up examination of Patient #1 should have been conducted as soon as

Patient #1 was well enough to tolerate it.

8. At all times material hereto, Respondent did not inform
Patient #1 about the abnormality which had been revealed by the x-
ray. Respondent did not order the follow—up studies as had been
recommended by the radiologist’s report.

9. At all times material hereto, Respondent kept no
documentation to confirm that Patient #1’s family physician was
ever made aware of the abnormality which had been revealed by
Patient #1’5 chest x-ray.

10. On or about May of 1987, Patient #1 presented to a
subsequent treating physician with complaints of hacking cough and

general malaise.

11. On or about June 9, 1987, an evaluation revealed a mass
in the left lung diagnosed as adenocarcinoma with extensive
lesions.

12. On or about July 10, 1987, Patient #1 underwent a
complete excision to remove the left lung.

COUNT ONE

13. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twelve (12), as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

14. Respondent is guilty of failing to keep written medical
records justifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or
administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations in
that he failed to keep documentation that he informed the
subsequent treating physician of a patient as to the existence of
a mass in the patient’s left lung as revealed by a chest x—ray.

15. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, in that Respondent is guilty of
failing to keep written medical records justifying the course of
treatment of the patient, including, but not limited to, patient
histories; examination results; test results; records of drugs
prescribed, dispensed, or administered; and reports of
consultations and hospitalizations.

COUNT 0
16. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

through fourteen (14), as if fully set forth herein this Count Two.

