TILED

DeparnLentofFROMSgonalRegumﬁoﬁ
AGENCY CLERK

(
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONALWQU&
BOARD OF MEDICIN 91/

 

CLERK
r~ _, 0 ’
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL DATE 4/ ' 7 /
REGULATION,
Petitioner,
-vs— DPR CASE NUMBER: 89-02997

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0043500
MANUEL L. ROMERO, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on May 31, 1991,
in Orlando, Florida, for consideration of a Stipulation (attached
hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the
above—styled case. Upon consideration of the Stipulation, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulation as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the
Stipulation.

The Board temporarily approved the practice plan and Dr.
Rodriguez as a monitor until the next scheduled Probation

Committee meeting.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department.

DONE AND ORDERED this [Lday of , 1991.

BOARD OF ME ICINE

[71»)? ”1543/

ZACHARIAH P. ZACHARIAH, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified U.S. mail to
Manuel L. Romero, M.D., c/o Robert S. Turk, Esquire, Suite 3400,
One Biscayne Tower, Two South Biscayne Boulevard, Miami, Florida
33131, and by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr.,
Acting Chief Medical Attorney, Department of Professional
Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe Street,

Tallahassee, Flori a 32399—0792, at or before 5:00 P.M., this

,2 day of , 1991.

    

AIRCLOTH
Executive Director

j. Respondent shall submit semiannual reports, in
affidavit form, the contents-of which shall be specified by the

Board. The reports shall include:

i. Brief statement of why physician is on
probation.

ii. Practice location.

iii. Describe ’current practice (type and
composition); 1

iv. Brief statement of compliance with

probationary terms.

v. Describe relationship with monitoring
physician.
vi. Advise Board of any problems.
k. Respondent understands that during the course of

the probation, semiannual reports shall be prepared by
investigators with the Department detailing Respondent's
compliance with the terms and conditions of this probation.
Respondent waives confidentiality of these reports as to the
Department only so that the Board may review these reports.

1. Respondent shall comply with all of the terms and
conditions of the Stipulation.

m. During the next two (2) years, Respondent shall
perform seventy (70) hours of community service at a rate of
thirty-five (35) hours per year. Community service shall consist
of medical service without fee or cost to the patient for the
good of the people of the State of Florida. Respondent shall

submit a written plan for performance and completion of the

community service to the Probatidner‘s Committee for* approval
prior to performance of said community service. Affidavits
detailing the community service performed shall be filed with the

Probationer's Committee annually.

n. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply
with the terms of the Final Order issued based on this
Stipulatien. Such costs include,-but are not limited to, the
cost of preparation of investiéative reports detailing compliance
with the terms of ithis proceeding, and administrative costs
directly associated with Respondent's probation. See Section
458.331(2), Florida Statutes.

5. It is expressly understood that this Stipulation is
subject to the approval of the Board and the Department. In this
regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing
baragraphs of the Stipulated Facts, Stipulated Conclusions of Law
and Stipulated Disposition) shall have no force and effect unless
a Final Order is entered incorporating the terms of this
Stipulation, by the Board.

6. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the
meeting whereat this Stipulation is considered. Respondent, in
canjunction with the consideration of this Stipulation by the
Board, shall respond to questions under oath from the Board,
Board Staff or Department Staff.

'7. Should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement made
in furtherance of this Stipulation, by the Respondent may be
used as direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding.
However, such statements may be used by the Petitioner for
impeachment only.

10

7. Should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement made
in furtherance of this Stipulation, by the Respondent may be
used as direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding.
However, such statements may be used by the Petitioner for
impeachment only.

8. Respondent and the Department fully understand that
this joiht Stipulation and subsequent Final Order incorporating
same will,in no way preclude edditional proceedings by the Board
and/or the Departhent against the Respondent for acts or
admissions not -specifically set forth in the Administrative
Complaint attached as Exhibit “A” herein.

9. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation,
Respondent expressly' waives all further procedural steps, and
expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to
otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the joint
Stipulation of facts, conclusions_ of law and imposition of
discipline, and the Final Order of the Board incorporating said
Stipulation.

10. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation, the
parties hereby agree that each party will bear his own attorney's
fees and cests resulting from prosecution and/or defense of this
proceeding. Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney‘s
fees or costs from the Department in connection with this
disciplinary proceeding.

11. This Stipulation is executed by the Respondent for the

purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to

this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to

11

review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in cpnjunction with consideration of the
Stipulation. Furthermore, should this joint Stipulation not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of;this Stipulation and other documents and matters
by the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board
or any of its members from further participation, consideration

,4

or resolution of these proceedlhgs.

SIGNED this 210% day of aé-f/ , 1991.
,7

i7” M¢M1

Manuel L. Romero, M.D.

 

to and subgc ibed
”th' 04

     

NOTARY PUBLIC STATE OF FLORIDA
MY COMMISSION EXP. 00.16,!993

My Commission Expires: BMMDTMUGUQMLIM.UW,

APPROVED this 4 day of 422% , 1991.

     

Lefty G. McPherETn

Acting Chief Medical
Attorney

1154

12

PROVISIONS REGARDING MONITORING/SUPERVISING PHYSICIANS
Provisions governing physicians practicing under supervision
of another physician

I. DEFINITIONS:

Indirect Supervision is supervision by a monitoring
physician whose responsibilities ere set by the Board.
Indirect Sppervision does not ieéuire that the monitor
practice on the same premises as the Respondent. However, the
monitor shall practice within a reasonable geographic
proximity to Respondent, which shall be within 20 miles unless
otherwise provided by the Board and shall be readily available
for consultation. The monitor shall be board-certified in any
specialty area, unless otherwise ordered by the Board.

Direct Supervision is supervision by a supervising
physician.' Direct supervision requires that the supervisor
and Respondent work on the same premises. Specific
responsibilities are set by the Board. The supervisor shall
be board—certified in the same specialty area in which
Respondent practices, unless otherwise ordered by the Board.

11. Provisions governing all supervised or monitored
physicians:

a. The supervisor/monitor shall be furnished with

copies of the Administrative Complaint, Final Order,

Stipulation (if applicable), and other relevant orders.

.._.,~.V Hart. ,

w»-.. . .

b. The Respondent shall not practice without a
monitoring or supervising physician unless otherwise ordered
by the Board. The Respondent shall appear at the next meeting
of the Probationer's Committee following entry of a Final
Order with his proposed supervisor or monitor unless otherwise
ordered by the Board. In the event that Respondent has not
obtained temporary approval of his monitor or supervisor by
the Chairman of the Board‘s Probationer's Committee prior to
that first Probationer's Committee meeting, then Respondent
may not practice.medicine until he has obtained such approval.
Temporary approval is only available if provided for in the
Final Order.

c. After the next meeting of the Probationer's
Committee occurs Respondent shall only practice under the
supervision of the supervisor or monitor. If for any reason
the approved supervisor or monitor is unwilling or unable to
serve, Respondent shall immediately notify the Executive
Director of the Board and shall cease practice until a
temporary supervisor/monitor is approved. The chairman of the
Probationer's Committee may approve a temporary supervisor or
monitor who may serve in that capacity until the next meeting

of the Probationer's Committee at which time the Committee

shall accept or reject a new proposed supervisor or monitor.

‘If the new proposed supervisor/monitor is rejected, Respondent

shall cease practice until a new supervisor or monitor is

temporarily approved by the Chairman of the Committee.

,.

Furthermore, the monitoring or supervising physician shall
appear at the next meeting of the Probationer's Committee, and
at such other times as are requested by the Committee.

Failure to appear by the monitor or supervisor as directed

shall constitute a violation of the Board's Final Order.

d. The supervisor or monitor must be a licensee under
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, in good standing and without
restriction er limitation on his license. In addition, the
Board or Committee may reject any proposed supervisor or
monitor on the basis that he has previously been subject to
any disciplinary action against his medical license in this or
any other jurisdiction. The supervisor or monitor may be
actively engaged in the same or similar specialty area unless
otherwise provided by the Board or Committee. The Board or

Committee may also reject any proposed supervisor or monitor

for good cause shown.

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
' BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
vs. CASE NO. 8902997

MANUEL L. ROMERO, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

ADMINISIBAIIYE_CQM2LAIHI

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against Manuel L. Romero, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with
regulating the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30,
Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter
458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having
been issued license number ME 0043500. Respondent‘s last
known address is 6322 South West 93 Avenue, Miami, Florida
33173.

3. On or about November 29, 1988, the State Attorney‘s
office filed a complaint against Respondent in the Circuit

Court of the Eleventh Judicial Circuit of Florida in and for

Dade County.

4. The complaint (docket #88-4879) charged Respondent
with one (1) count of grand theft, second degree, fourteen
(14) counts of Medicaid fraud (filing fraudulent claims), and

eight (8) counts of Medicaid fraud (receiving unauthorized

payments).
5. On or about January 31, 1989, Respondent pled nolo
contendere to all twenty-three (23) counts. Said counts

directly relate to the practice of medicine.

6. The judge withheld adjudication and Respondent was
placed on probation for eighteen (18) months beginning on or
about January 31, 1989, to on or about July 31, 1990.

7. Special conditions of probation included restitution
of $1,613.80 to be paid to the Office of Auditor General for
investigation costs and $90.00 to be paid to the Department of
Health and Rehabilitative Services for reimbursement.

. CQHNI_QNE

8. ?etitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through seven (7) as if fully set forth herein.

9. Respondent is guilty of having been convicted or
found guilty of, or entering a plea of nolo contendere to,
regardless of adjudication, of a crime in any jurisdiction
which directly relates to the practice of medicine or to the
ability to practice medicine in that: Respondent pled nolo
contendere to one (1) count of grand theft, second degree and
twenty-two (22) counts of Medicaid fraud. Any plea of nolo

contendere shall be considered a conviction for purposes of

Chapter 458.

10. Based on the preceding, Respondent is in violation
of Section 458.331(1)(c), Florida Statutes, in that he is
guilty of being convicted or found guilty of, or entering a
plea of nolo contendere to, regardless of adjudication, a
crime in any jurisdiction which directly relates to the
practice of medicine or to the ability to practice medicine.
Any plea of nolo contendere shall be considered a conviction
for purposes of this chapter.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine to enter an Order imposing one or more of the
following penalties: revocation or suspension of the
Respondent's license, restriction of the Respondent's
practice, imposition of an administrative fine, issuance of a
reprimand, placement of the Respondent on probation, and/or
any other relief that the Board deems appropriate.

SIGNED this fﬁxrday of (94‘ q; g : , 1990.

LARRY GONZALEZ
Secretary

BY: Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson F I L E D
Senior Attorney Damnmenofmoms'
Florida Bar #788643 AGENCYCLER
Department of Professional K

Regulation

Northwood Centre, Suite 60 £2;;LJ2 <

1940 North Monroe Street Q__——
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792 (lfRK

(904) 488-0062

 

L /ABS/dr
05/ 0/90

PCP:

. STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

vs. DOAH CASE NO. 90-5482
DPR CASE NO. 89-2997

MANUEL L./ROMERO, M.D.,

Respondent. ,/

MANUEL L.“ROMERO, M.D., the Respondent, and the Department
of Professional Regulation, referred to as Department, stipulate
and agree to the following joint Stipulation and to the entry of
a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as Board,
incorporating this Stipulation and agreement in this matter.

SIIBHLAIED_£ACIS

1. .At all times material hereto, Respondent was a
licensed physician in the State of Florida having been issued
license number ME 0043500.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules
enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the
Administrative Complaint is attached hereto and incorporated by
'reference as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations
of fact contained in the Administrative Complaint ettached hereto

as Exhibit A.

FLORIDA BOARD OF MEDICINE _
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION “wgsvzjyes

George Stuart
BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICINE F i L 5w“ --
L: L

 

 

 

DEPARTMENT OF DBDartment of Professional Regulati
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION, AGENCY CLERK
PETITIONER

DPR CASE NO. 89-02997
FLORIDA BOARD OF MEDICINE

1940 North Monroe Street v . 6 w ,
Tallahassee, Florida 323990770 CLERK CU (151i a(EZJI/CCU’L

Telephone (904) 4884595
Manuel L. Romero, M.D. 7 [k 45
Chum DATE

131115 N. Burt, MD- RESPONDENT

Jacksonville, Florida

Mamba: ORDER OF TERMINATION
Fuad S‘ Ashkax, MD.

Mia ',F]orid . . . .
"u a Upon reView of the terms and conditions of the Final Order

mebkh40mwxmul of the Board of Medicine rendered 7/17/91 the documentation
S‘hmwmgnm“ offered on behalf of Respondent, and being otherwise fully
ImmmhmamequD advised in the premises, it is hereby ORDERED AND ADJUDGED:
Naples. Florida

EmﬂmAlhwnMD. That Respondent completed his period of probation on
hmmmﬂmmnmmE 7/16/93 and has complied with all terms of the Final Order

H . rendered 7/17/91. DON -
Emlho Echevarna, MD. this 2 5 day Of

Tampa, Florida

 
  
   
 

Martin J. Fenwick, MD.
Coral Springs, Florida

Mary Kmhryn Garreu, MD.
Orlando, Florida

John W. Glorielty, MD.
Lakeland, Flcrida

Manning H. Hanline, IL, MD.
Pensacola, Florida

’ERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
Richard McEwen

Tallahagee, Florida

LouisC.Murray,M.D. I HREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
OMMQHWm foregoino F' a1 Order has been provided by certified mail
anenM‘Rodﬁguez to Manuel L. Romero, M.D., 6322 SW 93rd Avenue, Miami,
Tampa,Florida Florida 33173 and to Robert S. Turk, Esquire, Suite 2400

M S Sk' M D One Biscayne Tower , 2 South Biscayne Bouleva 6. Miami ,

wiﬁﬁgkgﬂﬁgmg Fl rid 3131 at or before 5:00 p.m. of this lléiélday of
, 19 9 3 .

Gary E. Winchester, MD. M M

Tallahassee, Florida '

w ;L%

Executive Di

    

     

tor, Board of Medicine

E'E: 1,3112:
Dorothy J. Fairdoth

DIVISION OF MEDICAL QUALITY ASSURANCE
NORTHWOOD CENTRE - 1940 NORTH MONROE STREET - TALLAHASSEE, FLORIDA 32399-0770

SII2HLAIED_CQNCLHSIQNS_Q£_LAH

1. Respondent, in his cepacity as a licensed physician,
admits that in such capacity he is subject to the provisions of
Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of
the Department and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administretive Complaint, if proven, constitute violations of
Chapter 45§,'Florida Statutesifes alleged in the Administrative
Complaint; "

SIIRHLAIED_DISEQSIIIQN

1. Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters
455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated
pursuant thereto.

2. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in the
amount $2,000 dollars against the Respondent. The fine shall be
paid by the Respondent to the Executive Director of the Board
within 180 days of the imposition by Final Order of the Board.

‘3. Respondent shall present a practice plan to the Board of
Medicine. Said practice plan shall describe the practice
location, the composition and type of practice, the average
patient load (on a weekly basis), the average number of hours on
a weekly basis during which the physician will be working, and
the names of any physicians with whom Respondent will be working.

’4. Effective on the date of the filing of the Final Order
incorporating the terms of this Stipulation, Respondent's license
to practice medicine shall be placed on probation for a period of

two (2) years. The terms and conditions of probation shall

include:

a. Respondent shall comply with all state and federal
statutes, rules and regulations pertaining to the practice of
medicine, including Chapters 455, 458, and 893, Florida Statutes,
and Rule 21M, Florida Administrative Code.

b. Respondent shall appear before the Board's
designated probationer's committee at the first meeting after

said probation commences, at _athe last meeting of the

-((

Probationeiﬂs Committee,preceaing termination of the probation,
and at Hench other. times as requested by the committee.
Respondent shall_be noticed by the Board staff of the date, time
and place ofg the Board's Probationer's Committee whereat
Respondent's appearance is required. Failure of Respondent to
appear as requested or directed shall be considered a violation
of the terms of this Stipulation, and shall subject the

Respondent to disciplinary action.

c. In the event the Respondent leaves the State of
Florida foi a period of thirty days or more or otherwise does not
engage in the active practice of medicine in the State of
Florida, then certain provisions of Respondent's probation (and
only those provisions of said probation) shall be tolled as
enumerated below and shall remain in a tolled status until
Respondent returns to active practice in the State of Florida.
Respondent must keep current residence and business addresses on
file with the Board. Respondent shall notify the Board within
ten (10) days of any changes of said addresses. Furthermore,
Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (10) days in the
event that Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine in

Florida.

d. In the event. that .Respondent leaves the active
practice of medicine in this.state for a period of thirty days or
more, the following provisions of his probation shall be tolled:

i. The time period of probation shall be tolled.
ii. The provisions regarding supervision, whether
direct or indirect by another physician, included in paragraphs

(f) through (i) below.

1,.
r

iii. The_ ,provisibns regarding preparation of
investigative reports detailing compliance with this Stipulation.
See paragraph (k) below.

iv. The community service requirements detailed in
paragraph (m) below shall be tolled.

e. In the event that Respondent leaves the active
practice of medicine for a period of one year or more, the
Probationers' Committee may require Respondent to appear before
the Probationers' Committee and demonstrate his ability to
practice medicine with skill and safety to patients prior to
resuming the practice of medicine in this State.

f. Respondent shall not practice except under the
indirect supervision of a physician fully licensed under Chapter
458, Florida Statutes, approved by the Board's Probationer's
Committee. Absent compliance with the terms regarding temporary
approval of a supervising physician set forth in paragraph (h)
'below, Respondent shall cease practice until the Probationer's
Committee approves a supervising physician. ReSpondent shall
have the monitoring physician with him at his first probation

appearance before the Board's Probationer's Committee. Prior to

approval of the monitoring physician by the committee, the
Respondent shall provide to_the monitoring physician a copy of
the Administrative Complaint and Final Order filed in this case.
A failure of the Respondent or the monitoring physician to appear
at the scheduled probation committee meeting thall constitute a
violation of the Board's Final Order. Prior to the approval of
the monitoring physician by the. committee, Respondent shall
submit to‘ the committee ‘difcurrent curriculum vitae and
descriptien of the current practice from the proposed monitoring
physician. Said materials shall be received in the Board office
no later than gourteen days before Respondent's first scheduled
probation appearance. The attached provisions regarding
monitoring physicians are incorporated herein as part of the
terms and conditions of this Stipulation. The responsibilities
6f the monitoring physician shall include:

i. Respondent's monitoring physician shall

appear before the probationer's committee at the first meeting

of said committee following commencement of the probation, and at
such other times as directed by the committee. It shall be
Respondent's responsibility to ensure the appearance of his
monitoring physician as requested or directed. Failure of the
monitoring physician to appear as requested or directed shall
constitute a violation of the terms of this Stipulation and shall
subject the physician to disciplinary action.

ii. Reapondent's monitoring physician shall
submit reports on a semiannual basis, in affidavit form, which

shall include:

e 4 ~01— vawg

a. Brief statement of why physician is on
probation. _
b. Description of probationer's practice.
c. Brief statement of probationer's
compliance with terms of probation.
d. Brief description of probationer's
relationship with monitoring physician.
e. ,Detailfghy problems which mey have arisen
with probationer. ’*‘
Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that the monitoring
physician submits the required reports.
iii. Be available for consultation with Respondent
whenever necessary, at a frequency of at least once per month.
iv. Review 25% of patient records from cases
which resulted in billing to a patient insurance company,
Medicaid or Medicare. The monitoring physician shall be
responsible for determining if and where the Respondent is
handling cases that result in billing. The monitoring physician
shall review the records on a random basis at least once every
month, for the purpose of ascertaining whether Respondent's
treatment and diagnosis and maintenance of nmdical records of
patient's are appropriate and adequate. In order to comply with

this responsibility of random review, the monitoring physician

Ishall meet with the Respondent once every month. At that time,

the monitoring physician shall be responsible for making the
random selection of the records to be reviewed by the monitoring

physician.

v. Maintain contact with Respondent on a
frequency of at least once.per month. In the event that the
nonitor is not contacted by Respondent on a frequency of at least
once per month, then the monitoring physician shall immediately
report this fact to the Board, in writing.

9. The Board shall confer authority on the Chairman of
the Board's Probationer's Committee to temporarily approve
Respondentjs' monitoring physioian. In order to obtain this
temporary approval, Respondent shall submit to the Chairman of
the Probationer's Committee the name and curriculum vitae of the
proposed monitoring physician. This information -shall be
furnished to the Chairman of the Probationer's Committee at the
time this stipulation is approved by the Board. Said approval
shall only remain in effect until the next meeting of the
Probationer's Committee. If the proposed monitoring physician is
not approved, Respondent shall immediately cease practice.
E] I 'l J E I | l 1] I I I l' .
until a monitoring physician is appraxed DR the Bcard'a
E l . , C 'll .

h. In view of the need for ongoing and continuous
monitoring or supervision, Respondent shall also submit the
curriculum vitae and name of an alternate monitoring physician
who shall be approved by the Probationer's Committee. Such
sphysician shall be licensed pursuant to Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, and shall have the same duties and responsibilities as

specified for Respondent's monitoring physician during those

periods of time when Respondent's monitoring physician is

temporarily unable to provide supervision. Prior to practicing
under the indirect supervision of the alternate monitoring
physician, Re5pondent shall so advise the Board in writing.
Respondent shall further advise the Board in writing of the
period of time during which Respondent shall practice under the
indirect supervision of the alternate monitoring physician.
Respondent shall not practice uniess he is under the supervision
of either the approved monitorihé physician or the “approved
alternate; ’ -”

i. In the event that the Respondent's monitoring
physician is unable or unwilling to fulfill his responsibilities
as a monitoring physician, as described above, then the
Respondent shall immediately advise the Board of this fact.
Respondent shall further submit to the Chairman for the Board's
Probationer's Committee the name of a temporary monitoring
physician for approval. Respondent shall not practice pending
approval of this temporary monitoring physician by the Chairman
of the Probationer‘s Committee. Furthermore, Respondent shall
make arrangements with his temporary monitoring physician to
appear before the Probationer's Committee at its next regularly
scheduled meeting, for approval of the monitoring physician by
the Committee. Respondent shall only practice under the auspices
of the temporary monitoring physician (approved by the Chairman)
_until the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Probationer's

Committee whereat the issue of the Committee's approval of the

Respondent's new monitoring physician shall be addressed.

