 

.,....,~\,

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REquxmgﬁ=“/

BOARD OF MEDICIpE /%K /,/ '
kk/k .OCCL,,””/

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL

 

REGULATION, 5UK 7 \I_v~nw W,ﬂ_,___ﬁ
. , ,_ / :_,

Petitioner, :“E é; !,Hfilw~

V' DPR CASE NUMBER: 89-05939

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0037511
YOUNG HWAN KIM, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

* FINAL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on December 7, 1991, in
Miami, Florida, for consideration of a Stipulation (attached hereto
as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the above—styled
case. Upon consideration of the Stipulation, the documents
submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the parties, and
being otherwise advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulation as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the

Stipulation.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Department.

 

f
DONE AND ORDERED this 7 day {mu iH/ , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

”7

/

MW/ /’”"
ZACHARIAH P. ZACHARIAH, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

 

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Young Hwan Kim, M.D.,
P.O. Box 38322, Tallahassee, Florida 38322 and Thomas S. Edward,
Jr., Esquire, 1609 Gulf Tower, Jacksonville, Florida 32207 and by
interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical
Attorney, Department of Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre,

1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, at or

before 5:00 P.M., this [I #4“ day of SIEEE::AZQ , 1991.

  

..w-_ ’2 uf/
DOROTHY J. FAIRCLOTH
Executive Director

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESS IONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

vs. DOAH CASE NO. 90—7814
DPR CASE NO. 8905939

YOUNG HWAN KIM, M.D

- I

Respondent.

_/

 

SIIRHLAIIQN

YOUNG HWAN KIM, M.D.,, referred to as the "Respondent", and
the Department of Professional Regulation, referred to as
"Department“; stipulate and agree to the following joint
Stipulation and to the entry of a Final Order of the Board of-
Medicine, referred to as Board, incorporating this Stipulation
and agreement in this matter.

SIIEHLAIED_EACIS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a
licensed physician in the State of Florida having been issued
license number ME 0037511.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules
enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the
Administrative Complaint is attached hereto and incorporated by
reference as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nOr denies the allegations

of fact contained in the Administrative Complaint attached hereto

as Exhibit A.

1 000002

SIIRULAIELLEQNCLHSIQNS_QE_LAH

1. Respondent, in his capacity as a licensed physician,
admits that in such capacity he is subject to the provisions of
Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of
the Department and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, constitute violations of
ghapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative
éomplaint.

SIIBDLAIED_DlSEQSlIlQN

1. Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters
455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated
pursuant thereto.

// 2. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in the
amount $1,000 (one thousand dollars) against the Respondent. The
fine shall be paid by the Respondent to the Executive Director of
the Board within 90 (ninety) days of the imposition by Final
Order of the Board.

3. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand from the
Board of Medicine.

// 4. Respondent shall attend 20 hours of Category I
Continuing Medical Education courses within one (1) year of the

imposition of the Final Order of the Board in the area of Medical

 

Ethics. In addition, Respondent shall submit documentation of
/__~_,-

completion of these continuing medical education courses to the

Board. These hours shall be in addition to those hours required

for renewal of Licensure. Unless otherwise approved by the Board

2 000003

____\

or the chairman of the Probationer's Committee, Vsaid
continuing education courses shall consist of a formal live
lecture format.

5. Respondent shall comply with all of the terms and
conditions of the Stipulation.

6. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply
with the terms of the Final Order issued based on this
§tipulation. Such costs include, but are not limited to, the
cost of preparation of investigative reports detailing
compliance with the terms of this Stipulation, the cost of
analysis of any blood or urine specimens submitted pursuant to
the Final Order entered as a result of this Stipulation, and

the Board's administrative costs directly associated with

Respondent's probation. See Section 458.331(2), Florida
Statutes .

7. It is expressly understood that this Stipulation is
subject to the approval of the Board and the Department. In

this regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing
paragraphs of the Stipulated Facts, Stipulated Conclusions of
Law and Stipulated Disposition) shall have no force and effect
unless a Final Order is entered incorporating the terms of
this Stipulation, by the Board.

8. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the
meeting whereat this Stipulation is considered. Respondent,
in conjunction with the consideration of this Stipulation by
the Board, shall reSpond to questions under oath from the

Board, Board Staff or Department Staff.

3 UUUUOQ

9. Should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement
made in furtherance of this Stipulation, by the Respondent
may be used as direct evidence against the Respondent in any
pioceeding. However, Such statements may be used by the
Petitioner for impeachment only.

l0. Respondent and the Department fully understand that
this joint Stipulation and subsequent Final Order
incorporating same will in no way preclude additional
proceedings by the Board and/or the Department against the
Respondent for acts or admissions not specifically set forth
in the Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit "A”
herein.

ll. Upon the Board‘s adoption of this Stipulation,
Respondent expressly waives all further procedural steps, and
expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to
otherwise Challenge or contest the validity of the joint
Stipulation of facts, conclusions of law and imposition of
discipline, and the Final Order of the Board incorporating
said Stipulation.

l2. Upon the Board‘s adoption of this Stipulation, the
parties hereby agree that each party will bear his own
attorney's fees and costs resulting from prosecution and/or
defense of this proceeding. Respondent waives the right to
seek any attorney's fees or costs from the Department in
connection with this disciplinary proceeding.

13. This Stipulation is executed by the Respondent for

the purpose of avoiding further administrative action with

4 000005

respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes
the Board to review and examine all investigative file
materials concerning Respondent prior to or in conjunction
with consideration of the Stipulation. Furthermore, should
this joint Stipulation not be accepted by the Board, it is
agreed that presentation to and consideration of this
Stipulation and other documents and matters by the Board shall
got unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or any of its
members from further participation, consideration or

resolution of these proceedings;

 

SIGNED this Lg day of Zf/‘W/Ll" ‘44—, 1991
[1/411 I’g‘a://, ‘Vm
/ ung fKim, [M D.

Sworn to and subscribed
before me this ,;§V day
" ,r' {AAA , 1991.

of
// HLJLHm.A Qﬁﬂj

’NOTARY PUBLIC 7 .-11»

 

My Commission Expireszﬂ‘

APPROVED this [0

    

   

ry G. MCP
Chief Medical

Attorney
1154

5 000006

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,
Petitioner,
DPR CASE NO.: 8905939
vs.

YOUNG HWAN KIM, M.D.

Respondent.

/
W

 

'H'

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as “Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine,
against Young Hwan Kim, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been
issued license number ME 0037511. Respondent's last known
address is Post Office Box 38322, Tallahassee, Florida 38322.

3. On or about July 6, 1988, all of Respondent's Clinical
privileges at Gadsden Memorial Hospital, Quincy, Florida, were
summarily suspended.

4. On or about May 12, 1989, Respondent signed an
application for appointment with the Florida Department of

Corrections.

1 - nnnnnv

.4.”

5. Respondent indicated in this application that he had

never had any hospital privileges suspended.
CQHNI_QNE

6. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through five (5) as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

7. Respondent made deceptive, untrue, or fraudulent
representations in or related to the practice of medicine or
employed a trick or scheme in the practice of medicine, in that
Respondent fraudulently represented that he never had any
ehospital privileges susgended.

8. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.33l{1)(k), by making deceptive, untrue, or
fraudulent representations in or related to the practice of
medicine employing a trick or scheme in the practice of medicine.

CQHELJEE

9. Petitioner realieges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through five (5) and seven (7) as if fully set forth herein
this Count Two.

10. Respondent violated a provision of Chapter 458,
Florida Statutes in that Respondent attempted to obtain or did
obtain a position as a medical practitioner or medical resident
in a clinic or hospital through a knowing misrepresentation of
education, training, or experience, in violation of Section
458.327(l)(d), Florida Statutes.

11. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.33l(l)(x), Florida Statutes by violating any
provisions of this chapter, a rule of the board or department, or
a lawful order of the board or department previously entered in a
disciplinary hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully issued

subpeona of the department.

000000

~+h

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board

of Medicine enter an ORDER imposing one or more of the fol1owing

penalties: Revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,

restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an

administrative fine, issuance Of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

9 SIGNED this 49%L.day 0f

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Senior Attorney

FL. Bar No.0788643

Department of Professional
Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, FL 32399—0750

(90 ) 488—0062

LA /BG/pb

pep 11/6/90
Burt, Hanline, Campbell

?diZMWL , 1990.

Larry Gonzalez
Secretary

Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

Fl L E D

?ewanment of Profess'onai ?egulation
AGENCY CLERK

 

000009

