  

    

 

 

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL RECUQATIO
BOARD OF MEDICINE “~/ ] /ﬁ

 

CLE?} -
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL r‘
REGULATION,
DATE
Petitioner,
-vs- DPR CASE NUMBER: 9004597

LiCENSE NUMBER: ME 0041206
EDWARD L‘ DEMMI, M.D.,

Respondent.

_“_ ....___.-._--/

FINAL ORDER

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on October 5,
1990, in Miami, Florida, for consideration of a Stipulation
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties
in the aboveustyled case. Upon consideration of the Stipulatiun,
the documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulation as
submitted be and is hereby apprcved and adopted 'n toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of tho
Stipulation.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk uf Lhu

Department.

  

 

 

3

Hi

DONE AND ORDERED this #13: day of dz

 

BOARD OF MEDICINE

{QLQLUJK ,0 ,.
MARGARE 3C S. SKINNER, M D.

CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
faregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Edward L.
Demmi, M.D., 2729 Briarpatch Drive, Valrico, Florida 33594, and

,by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Attorney at
Law, Department of Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre,

1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792, at or

,4 .
before 5:00 p.n.. this (£3 day of le’gza, A.) , 1990.

DemmiE 10/5/90

 

 

  

 

less than four years from the date the course was taken. The Board

will randomly audit such numbers of licensees as is necessary to
ensure that the continuing education requirements are met.

7. Pursuant to Rule 21M—28.002(5), Florida
Administrative Code, the following courses have been approved by

the Board of Medicine for continuing education:
a. Organized courses approved {or American Medical
Assomiation Category I Continuing Medical Education credits or

accepted for the American Medical Association physician recognition

award.

b. Any postgraduate training program accredited by
the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education.

a. The following specialty training: American
College of Emergency Physicians, Category 1; American Academy of
Family Physicians prescribed credit; and American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists cognates.

8. On or about DecembEr 1, 1987, Respondent signed the

fcilowing statement wh1ch was thereafter submitted as part of the
request to renew his license to gractice medicine:

I hereby certify that during the period January 1,
1986, through December 31, 1987. I have obtained
no fewer than forty (40) hours of continuing medical
education courses which meets the requirement of
Chapter 455.213(5), Florida statutes, and Rule
21M—28.002(6), F.A.C. I further certify that at
least five (5) of the forty (40) hours concern risk
management pursuant to Rule 21M~28.002(2). I
understand that I must maintain such receipts,
vouchers, certificates, or other papers to document
coﬁpletion of the CHE requirements tor a periad of
not less than fcur (4) years from the date the
course was taken.

  

  

 

 
  

 

I affirm that these statements are true and correct
and recognize that providing false information may
result in a fine, suspension or revocation of my
license as provided in Florida Statutes 455.2275,
775.032, or 775.034.

9. The aforementioned statement was required as part of
the renewal process for the licensing period from January 1, 1988,
through December 31, 1989. Without this statement, Respondent
could not have renewed his license to practice medicine in Florida.

10. Thereafter, Respondent successfully renewed his
license to practice medicine in Florida. That renewal was based,
in part, on the aforementioned statement regarding completion of
Cantinuinq Medical Education.

11. Thereafter, Respondent was selected randomly for
audit purposes to verify his continuing medical education for the
period covered in his statement (January 1, 1986 through December
31, 1987). By letter datéd November 30, 1988, frcm Dorothy J.
Faircloth, Executive Director for the Bcard of Medicine, Respandent
was asked to provide such verification.

12. Thereafter, Respondent submitted dcoumentation of
78 credit hours of continuing education.

13. A review of Respondant's response to the audit
revealed no risk management credit for the relevant time period.
Accordingly, on February 15, 1990, Respondent’s documentation was
returned to him with a notation that he had provided no
documentation regarding risk management credit for the relevant
time period.

14. On or about February 25, 1989, Respondent submitted

 

  

   
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
 

  

 

a letter to the Department in which he stated:

In reviewing my continuing medical education courses
I am unable to provide documentation for the
required risk management hours.

I bear full responsibility for this oversight since
when choosing medical education courses some
included risk management and others did not; I
unfortunately chose too many courses which did not
include risk management in the time frame allowed.
Currently I am enrolled in AIDS and risk management
course offered April 15, 1989. I regret that I have

not met the requirements under Section 455.213(5)
but am presently in pursuit of completing this

obligation.

15. Respondent has failed to comply with the provisions
of Rule 21M-28.002, Florida Administrative Code in that he has
failed to complete the five (5) hours of continuing education in
the area of risk management required as a condition of renewal.

16. Respondent made a fraudulent representation in order
to renew his license to practice medicine when he falsely certified
that he had completed five (5) hours of ri3k management as part of
the forty (40) hours required for renewal of licensure

COUN! (mg

17. Petitioner realleges paragraphs one (1) through
sixteen (16) above as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

18. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Seetion
458.331(1){a), Florida Statutes, by renewing a license to practice
medicine by fraudulent representations.

QQEEX_IHQ
19. Petitioner realleges paragraphs one (1) through

fifteen (15) above as if fully set forth herein this Count Two.
5

 

  

  

   

   

  
  

3 O

20. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(x), Florida Statutes, by violating a rule of the Board,
to wit: Rule 21H—28.002, Florida Administrative Code.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension at the Raspondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/cr any other relief that the Board
deems appropriate.

SIGNED this 3rd day of , 1990.

Larry Gonzalez
Secretary

By; Stephanie A. Daniel
chief Medical Attorney

Larr G. McPherson Senior Attorne F I L E ,
Florida Bar No. 07138643 y mﬂmﬂ‘g’az'gefﬁgﬂ ”g mm
Dept. of Professional Regulation A

19§0 North Monroe Street, Suite 60
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792 5 Q
(904) 438-0062 W

COUNS EL FOR DEPARTMENT:

 

GtERK

sap; sd q
mm: W

 

 

7.‘

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

BPR CASE NO. 90-UQSF7

EDWARD L. DEMMI, M.D.,

Respondent,

______~__4w___ /

SIIBHLﬁEIQﬂ

Edward L. Demmi, the Respondent, and the Department cf
Professional Regulation, referred to as Department, stipulate and
agree to the following jeint Stipulation and to the aLtrv 0? a
Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred tu as Bsarﬁ;
Ancoraorating this Stipulation and agreemenL in thi? wettq:

SEIEHLAIED.£ASIS

l. At all times material hereto, Respondent ma: a
licensed physician in the State of Florida having been issued
license number HE 0041206.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrat ye Camplainc
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respcndeni vats
violations of Chapter 458, Florida StacuLes. and the : ;ns
enaCLed pursuant thereto A true ;1d cogrect écpy 35 :he
Administrative Complaint is atLached hereto and incorporctaﬁ 3“

reference as Exhibit A4

0 9

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the
allegations of fact contained in the Administrative Complaint
attached hereto as Exhibit A.

WM

1. Respondent, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, admits that in such capacitf he is subject to the
provisions of Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the
jurisdiction of the Department and the Beard.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, constitute violations of
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the

Administrative Complaint.
SIIEHLAEBD_DISEQSIIIQN

1. Respondent shall not in the iuture virlate Chaptérs
455. 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgaﬁed
pursuant thereto.

2. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in
the amount one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) against the
Respondent. The fine shall be paid by the Resyonden’ to the
Executive Director of the Board within thirty (30) days of the
imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. The Respondent shall appear before the Board when
this StipulaLion is considered and demodstrace to the Board

that all Continuing Medical Education (CME) requirements for

the renewal period in question have been completed. If
Respondent cannot demonstrate compliance, his license to
practice medicine shall be suspended until such time as he can
demonstrate fuli compliance with the CME requirements for
licensure renewal.

4. Prior to appearing before the Board, the Respondent
shall submit to the Department such receipts, vouchers.
certificates, or other papers to document completion of the
CME requirements no later than 21 days prior to the Board
meeting.

5. CME courses taken to correct the deficiencies alleged
in the Administrative Complaint or taken pursuant to this
Stipulation shall be in addition to that amount required for
subsequent licensure renewal periods.

6. The Respondent shall complete five (5) hours of CME
in the area of Risk Management within 18D days of the
imposition of the Final Order of the Board in this case.

7. It is expressly understood that this Stipulation is
subject to the approval of the Board and the Dapartme H. In
this regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing
paragraphs of the Stipulated Facts, Stipulated Conclusions of
Law and Stipulated Disposition) shall have no force and effect
unless a Final Order is entered incorporating the terms 0:

this Stipulation, by the Board.

 

    
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
      
   
  
  
   
  
     
  
  
  
   
   
 

@ O

8. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the
meeting whereat this Stipulation is considered. Respondant,
in conjunction with the consideration of this Stipulation by
the Board, shall respond to questions under oath from the
Board, Board Staff or Department Staff.

9. Should this Stipulation he rejected, no statement
made in furtherance of this Stipulation, by the Respondent
may be used as direct evidence against the Respondent in any
proceeding. However, such statements may be used by the
Petitioner for impeachment only.

10. Respondent and the Department fully understand that
this joint Stipulation and subsequent Final ﬁzier
incorporating same will in no way preclud& addiLidnal
proceedings by the Board and/or the Department against the
Respondent for acts or admissions not specifically set imrth
in the Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit ‘A’
herein.

11. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation,
Respondent expressly waives all further procedural :teps, and
Expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review 9! 0r ta
otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the jQint
Stipulation of facts, conclusions of law and imposition cf
discipline, and the Final Order of the Board incorporating

said Stipulation.

   

  

 

 

   
   
  
   
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
 

 
 

G O

12. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation, the
parties hereby agree that each party will hear his Cﬁﬂ
attorney‘s fees and costs resulting from prnsecution and/or
defense of this proceeding‘ Respondent waives the right to
seek any attorney‘s fees or costs from the Department in
connection with this disciplinary proceeding.

13. This Stipulation is executed by the Respondent for
the purpose of avoiding further administrative action with
respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent authazizss
the Bcard to review and examine all investigative file
materials concerning Respondent prior t0 or in conjuncticn
with consideration of the Stigulation. furthermcre, shax;ﬂ
this joint Stipuiation not be accepted by the Board, it is
agreed that presentation to and coasiderﬂti n of this
Stipulation and other documents and matters by the Beard 3? all
not unfairly or illegaliy prejudice the Baard or any of its
members from iurth3r particiyatiom, consideratian or

resolutiun of these proceedings.

SIGNED this '—U_:‘- day of A 41 ,2,"”179§v.

{ﬁx ’
«(a “:3?
Edward L. 5emml,M
Sworn to and suégc§1bed
before me this .; day

of .1} w" , 1989
. i .
‘ " r ___3_le.: 3:11:141; gum...

NOTARY P1353}. 1 I: J

My Commission Expirea:

   

  

APPROVED this Qi'day of {2:44} édhﬂt , 1990‘

Larry Gonzalez
Secretary

tephanie A. Danie
Chief Medical
Attorney

z» .w ,nww W _, 1 ‘ > «nmjﬂ ~_

 
 
    

1h ¢4. /

 

 

 

 

% ﬁ

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT or PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
vs. casa no. 9004597
EDWARD L. DEMMI, H.D.,

Responﬁent.

/
ADHIEISTRArzvs QOMPLAINT

COMES NOW, the Petitioner, the Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred tn as "Petitioner“, and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
Edward L. Demmi, M.D., hereinafter referred to as “Respondent", and
aIIEQES:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with
regulating the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30,
Florida Statutes, chapter 455, Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458,
Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the state of Florida, having been
issued licensed number ME 0041206. Respondent's last known address
is 2729 Briarpatcn Drive, Valrico, Florida 33594-5725.

3. Pursuant to Section 455.213(5), ?lorida statutea, as
a candition of renewal of a license, the Board of Medical Examiners

(Board of Medicine) shall require licensees which it regulates to

 

     
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
    
   
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
   
  
 

    
 

8 O

 

periodically demonstrate their professional competency by
completing at least 40 hours of continuing education every 2 years,
of which at least 5 hours shall concern risk management. Criteria
for, and content of, continuing education courses shall be approved
by the Board.

4. Pursuant to Rule 21M~28.002, Florida Administrative
Code, every physician licensed pursuant to Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, shall be required to complete 40 hours of continuing
medical education courses approv'ed by the Board in the 24 manths
preceding each biennial renewal period as established by the
Department. At least 5 of such continuing medical education hours
required for renewal shall concern risk management.

5. Pursuant to Rule 21H-28.002(2)(a), Florida
Administrative Code, risk management means the identification,
investigation, analysis, and evaluation of risks and the selection
of the most advantageous method cf correcting, reducing, or
eliminating identifiable risks.

6. Pursuant to Section 21M-28.002(3), Florida
Administrative Code, part of the application for renewal shall
include a form on which the licensee shall state that he has
completed the required continuing education. Additionally, the
licensee must retain such receipts, vouchers, certificates, or
other papers, such as physician recognition awards issued by the
AMA, as may be necessary to document completion uf the continuing

medical education listed on the renewal form for a period of not

  

