FILED

Deparunem of Professional Regulation
AGENCY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSION ﬂ ON 4]ng
F M D
BOARD o E IC Ox/

CLERK M
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL , 2 2‘ \ q (
REGULATION, DATE

Petitioner,

—vs— DPR CASE NUMBER: 9006939
:LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0022375
VICTOR HOCHMAN, M.D.,

Respondent.

/
FINAL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on December 1,
1990, in Kissimmee, Florida, for consideration of a Stipulation
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties
in the above-styled case. Upon consideration of the Stipulation,
the documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being otherwise edvised in the premises, the Board
rejected the Stipulation proposed and offered an amendment at the
hearing, which amendment was accepted on the record without
objection by the parties.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulation as
submitted be and hereby is approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein with the following amendments:

1. Paragraph 2 of the Stipulated Disposition is amended to
reflect a decrease in the administrative fine to one thousand
dollars ($1,000).

2. Paragraph 5 0f the Stipulated Disposition is amended to

read:

The Respondent shall complete five (5) hours of Category I
CME in the area of RiSk Management, within 180 days of the filing
of the Final Order in this case. Lf Respondent does not complete
this requirement, Respondent's license shall be suspended until
compliance is documented.

3. Paragraph 7 of the stipulated Disposition is amended to
read:

Respondent shall attach to his next application for license
renewal, copies of such receipts, vouchers, certificates or other
papers to document completion of the CME requirements to
demonstrate compliance with the intervening renewal periods.

Accordingly, the parties shall adhere to and abide by the
terms and conditions of the Stipulation as amended.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the
Department of Professional Regulation.

DONE AND ORDERED this lip" day of g , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

W”/(>—\
ZACHAR

AH P ZACHARIAH, M. D.
CHAIRMAN

necessary to document completion of the continuing medical
education listed on the renewal form for a period of not less
than four years from the date the course was taken. The Board
will randomly audit such numbers of licensees as is necessary
to assure that the continuihg education requirements are met.

7. Putsuant to Rule 2lM-28.002(5), Flo-ida

Administrative Code, the following courses have been approved

by the Board of Medicine for continuing education:

a. Organized courses approved for American Medical
Association Category I Continuing Medical Education credits or
accepted for the American Medical Association physician

I recognition award.

I

b. Any postgraduate training program accredited by

the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education.

c. The following specialty training: American
College of Emergency Physicians, Category I; American Academy
of Family Physicians prescribed credit; and American College

of Obstetricians and Gynecologists cognates.

8. On or about December 31, 1987, Respondent signed the
following statement which was thereafter submitted as part of

the request to renew his license to practice medicine:

I hereby certify that during the period
January 1, 1986, through December 31, 1987, I
have obtained no fewer than forty (40) hours of
continuing medical education courses which
meets the requirement of Chapter 455.213(5),
Florida Statutes, and Rule 21M-28.002(6)
Florida Administrative Code. I further certify
that at least five (5) of the forty (40) hours
concern risk management pursuant to Rule 21M-
28.002(2) Florida Administrative Code. I

i

U u v...

understand that I must maintain such receipts,
vouchers, certificates, or other papers to
document completion of the CME requirements for
a period of not less than four (4) years from
the date the course was taken.

I affirm that these statements are true
and correct and recognize that providing false
information may result in a fine, suspension or
revocation of my license as provided in Florida
Statutes 455.2275, 775.082, or 775.084.

9. The aforementioned statement was required as part of
the renewal process for the licensing period from January 1,
1988, through December 31, 1989. without this statement,
Respondent could not have renewed his license ,to practice
medicine in Florida.

10. Thereafter, Respondent successfully renewed his
license to practice medicine in Florida. That renewal was
based, in part, on the aforementioned statement regarding
completion of Continuing Medical Education.

11. Thereafter, Respondent was selected randomly for
audit purposes to verify his continuing medical education for
the period covered in his statement (January 1, 1986 through
December 31, 1987).

12. On or about March 27, 1990, Respondent submitted
documentation of twenty-five and a half (25.5) hours of
continuing medical education for the relevant time period.

13. On or about June 11, 1990, Respondent, in a letter

states in part, "I am aware that I am lacking several hours of

the period of January 1986 through December the 315t of 1987."

15. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one

(1) through fourteen (14) as if fully set forth herein this

Count One.

16. Respondent violated a rule of the Board, in that
Respondent failed to submit adequate documentation verifying
his continuing medical education for the period from January
1, 1986, through December 31, 1987, in response to the Board‘s
random audit, and thereby failed to comply with Rule 21M-
28.002, Florida Administrative Code.

17. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331(1)(x), Florida Statutes, by violating
any provision of this chapter, a rule of the board or
department, or a lawful order of the board or department
previously entered in a disciplinary hearing or failing to
comply with a lawfully issued subpoena of the department.

CQHHI_IHQ

18. Petitioner realieges and incorporates one (1)
through fourteen (14) and sixteen (16) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

19. Respondent renewed his license by fraudulent
misrepresentation, in that Respondent falsely certified that

he completed the continuing medical education requirements for

the period from January 1, 1986, through December 31, 1987.

20. Based on the preceding allegations, Res onden:

'0

violated Section 458.33l(l)(a), Florida Statutes, by
attempting to obtain, obtaining,‘ or renewing a license to
practice medicine by bribery, by fraudulent
misrepresentations, or through an error of the department or
the board.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine to enter an Ofder imposing one or more of the
following penalties: revocation or suspension of the
Respondent‘s license, restriction of the Respondent's
practice, imposition of an administrative fine, issuance of a
reprimand, placement of the Respondent on probation, and/o:
any other relief that the Board deems appropriate.

SIGNED this ﬂf’uiay of éﬂM/m , 1990.

LARRY GONZALEZ
Secretary

“344$

Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorn ney

Larry G. McPherson F l L E D

De n
Senior Attorney 96 men;8258‘¥655i°nalRegu'amn
Florida Bar #788643 CLERK
Department of Professional

Regulation 5 “-Q
Northwood Centre, Suite 60 Q__.,

1940 North Monroe Street CLERK
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792

(904) 483-0062 DATE 9-15 90

CJR/BG/dr
o7/13/90i

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

 

 

PCP:

MEMORANDUM

 

 

m Compliance Tracking File
FROM: Compliance Management Unit
DATE: Friday, July 7, 2006
SUBJECT: Closing Document

 

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
m

Hochman, M.D., 110 East Byrd Avenue, Bonifay, Florida 32425, and
by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Attorney at
Law, Department of Professional Regulation, 1940 North Monroe

Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792, at or before 5:00 P.M.,

this 151% day of ?QMMMM 1991.

M

    

Orders/Hochmanv 12/1/90

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

 

Petitioner,

vs. DPR CASE NO. 9006939

VICTOR HOCHM‘AN, M.D. ,

Respondent.
/
_.___._________________________

SIIEHLAIIQH
Victor Hochman, M.D., referred to as Respondent, and the

Department of Professional Regulation, referred to as Department,

stipulate and agree to the following joint Stipulation and Final

Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as Board,

incorporating this Stipulation and agreement in this case.

EIIEHLAIED_EACIS

1. At all times material to this matter, Respondent

licensed physician in the State of Florida having been issued

license number ME 0022375.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint

filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with

violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules

enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the

Administrative Complaint is attached and incorporated by

reference as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the

allegations of fact contained in the Admihistrative Complaint

attached as Exhibit A.

W

1. Respondent, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, edmits that in such capacity he is subject to the
provisions of Chapters 455 and 458, Florida statutes, and the
jurisdiction of the Department and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, attached hereto as Exhibit "A", if
proven, constitute violations of Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative Complaint.

SIIEHLAIED_DISEQSIIIQN

1. Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters

455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated

pursuant thereto.

2. The Board shall impose an admintftrative fi:e in
the amount two thousand dollars (512:3b) against the
Respondent. The fine shall be paid by the Respondent to the
Executive Director of the Board within thirty (30) days of its
imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. The Respondent shall personally appear when this
stipulation is considered by the Board of Medicine and
demonstrate to the board that all Continuing Medical Education

(CME) requirements for the renewal period in question have

been completed. If Respondent cannot demonstrate compliance,
i

r _

uo-eu‘

his license to practice medicine shall be suspended until such
time as he can demonstrate full compliance with the CME
requirements for licensure renewah.

4. Prior to appearing before the board, the Res;ondent
shall submit to the Department such receipts, vouchers,
certificates, or other papers to document completion of the
CME requirements he later than 21 days prior to the board
meeting.

5. The Respondent shall complete fourteeq and a half
(14.5) hours of Category I CME, 5 hours of which shall be in
the area of Risk Management, within 180 days of the filing of
the Final Order in this case.

6. CME courses taken to correct the deficiencies
alleged in the Administrative Complaint or taken pursuant to
this stipulation shall be in addition to that amount rs;:i:ed
for subsequent licensure renewal periods.

7. Respondent shall attach to subsequent applications
for license renewal, copies of such receipts, vouchers,
certificates or other papers to doc ent completion of the CME
requirements. 59»?7 ’6 “‘3’/

8. It is expressly understood that this Stipulation is
subject to the approval of the Board and the Department. In
this regard, the foregoihg paragraphs (and only the foregoing
paragraphs of the stipulated Facts, stipulated Conclusions of
Law and Stipulated Disposition) shall have no force and effect

unless a Final Order is *entered incorporating the terms of

this Stiphlation, by the Board.

9. Respondent shali appear before the Board at the
meeting of the Board where this Stipulation is consicered.
Respondent, in conjunction with ’the consideration cf this
Stipulation by the Board, shall respond to questions under
oath from the Board, Board Staff or Department Staff.

10. Should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement
made in furtherance of this Stipulation, by the Res;c:dent
may be used as direct evidence against the Respondent in any
proceeding; however, such statements may be used by the
Petitioner for impeachment only.

11. Respondent and the Department fully understand that
this joint Stipulation and subsequent Final Order
incorporating same will in no way preclude addi tional
proceedings by the Board and/or the Department against the

Respondent for acts or omissions not specifically set fc::h in

the Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit "A" he:

 

12. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation,
Respondent expressly waives all further procedural steps, and
expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to
otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the joint
Stipulation of facts, conclusions of law and imposition of
discipline, and the Final Order of the Board incorporating
said Stipulation.

13. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation, the
parties hereby agree that each party will bear his own
attorney' 5 fees and costs resulting from prosecution and or

defense of this proceeding. Respondent waives the rignt to

seek any attorney's fees or costs from the Department in
connection with this disciplinary proceeding.

14. This Stipulation is executed by the Respondent for
the purpose of avoiding further administrative action with
respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes
the Board ‘to review and examine all investigative file
materials concerning Respondent prior to or in conjunction
with consideration of the Stipulation. Furthermore, should
this joint Stipulation not be accepted by the goard, it is
agreed that presentation to and consideration of this
Stipulation and other documents and matters by the Board shall
not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or any of its

members from further participation, consideration or

resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED this G?TVday of 050%» , 1990.

 

Sworn to and subscribed
before me this £QM¢'day

of C‘dgwézr- , .19-9'91/‘790

1.) 7, 076’"
TARY PUBLIC

Ivcormsseﬁ ~~=g_ .
MY Commission Expiresvhm'm'w kohsnpums. MAY 16. 1993.

iv buauc unnxnwmuas.

APPROVED this 25rd day of (’kﬂt , 1990.

Larry Gonzalez
Secretary

géngr—LLQ M

g By: Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical
Attorney

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
vs. CASE NO. 9005939
VICTOR HOCHMAN, M.D.,

Respondent.
/
___________________________

ADMINISIBAII!E_CQMELAINI

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Prof

 

Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Med;:i:e
against Victor Hochman, M.D., hereinafter referrei :1 es
"Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged .;:i

regulating the practice of medicine pursuant to Secticz ;f

I

Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statute“; and 4ha;:e:

458, Florida Statutes.

 

2, Respondent is and has been at all time:

 

hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, h-
been issued license number ME 0022375. Respondent's Les:
known address is 401 East Byrd Avenue, Post Office Box :68,
Bonifay, Florida 32425.

3. Pursuant to Section 455.213(5), Florida Statutes. as
a condition of renewal of a License, the Board of Medical

Examiners (Board of Medicine) shall require licensees which it

regulates to periodically demonstrate their professional
competency by completing at least forty (40) hours of
continuing education every two (2) years, of which at least
five (5) hours shall concern risk management. Criteria for,
and content of, continuing education courses shall be approved
by the Board.

4. Pursuant to Rule 21M-28.002, Florida Administrative
Code, every physician licensed pursuant to Chapter 458,
Florida Statutes, shall be required to complete forty (40)
hours of continuing medical education approved by,the Board in
the twenty-four (24) months preteding each biennial renewal
period as established by the Department.- At least five (5) of
such continuing medical education hours required for renewal
shall concern risk management.

5. Pursuant to Rule 2lM—28.002(2)(a), Florida
Administrative Code, risk management means the identification,
investigation, analysis, and evaluation of risks and the
selection of the most advantageous method of correCIing,
reducing, or eliminating, identifiable risks.

6. Pursuant to Rule 21M-28.002(3), Florida
Administrative Code, part of the application for renewal shall
include a form on which the licensee shall state that he has
completed the required continuing education. Additionally,
the licensee must retain such receipts, vouchers,
certificates, or other papers, such as physician recognition

awards issued by the American Medical Association, as may be

