FILED

STATE OF FLORIDA DepartmentofBusiness and ProfessionalRegulaﬁon

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL chutﬁmﬂm
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND

PROFESSIONAL REGULATION, CLERK 504m 1. NW”
Petitioner, ‘3 TE ~39— 93

V. - DBPR CASE NUMBER: 90-00252
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0039421

HASAN ISMAIL ZEYA, M.D.,

Respondent.
El
EINAL ogQER

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on December 4, 1993, in
Boca Raton, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in
the above- -sty1ed case. Upon consideration of the Consent
Agreement, the documents submitted in support thereof,‘ the
arguments of the parties, and ‘being otherwise advised in the
premises, the Board rejected the Consent Agreement proposed and
offered an amendment at the hearing, which amendment was accepted
without objection by the parties.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein with the amendment that ,the
Respondent shall within two (2) years of the filing of the Finai
Order in this case, attend a total of 40 hours of Category I
Continuing Medical Education, 32 hours shall be in the area of.
general medicine. Respondent shall submit a written plan to the

Chairman of the Probationer's Committee for approval prior to the

completion of said continuing education hours. The Board confers
authority on the Chairman of the Probationer's Committee to approve
or disapprove said continuing education hours. The Respondent
shall submit documentation in the form of certified copies of the
receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other papers, such as
physician's recognition awards; documenting completion of these
medical education courses. These hours shall be in addition to
those hours required for renewal of licensure. In addition,
Respondent shall complete the course (8 hours), "Quality Medical
Record Keeping for the Health Care Professional" sponsored by the
Florida Medical Association Incorporated.

Accordingly, the parties shall adhere to and abide by all 0:
the terms and conditions of the Consent Agreement, as amended.

This Final Order takes'effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Department.

DONE AND ORDERED this <9~3 day MW , 1993.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

3W

EDWARD A. DAUER, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

 

   

11. Respondent failed to pick up on the hypotension, the
fluctuating blood sugars, and the progressive renal azotemia as

well as the patient’s complaints of weakness and tiredness.

12. Respondent failed to refer Patient #1 to a nephrologist.

13. The standard of care requires that a physician without
nephrology 'training and without experience treating kidney
transplant patients obtain a nephroloqist’s consultation when he
renders care to a kidney transplant patient.

14. Respondent's medical records are lacking in substance in
that they do not justify Respondent's course of treatment.

15. Respondent practiced medicine beyond the scope or his
professional abilities by caring for Patient #1 without having
received any kind of nephrology training. 7

QQDNI_QEE

16.. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

through fifteen (15), as if fully eat forth herein this Count One.

17. Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or

physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances in that Respondent failed to pick up on Patient {1's
hypotension, fluctuating blood sugars, progressive renal azotenia,
and complaints of weakness and tiredness; and Respondent failed to
obtain a nephrology consultation on Patient #1.

18. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated

Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida statutes, in that he is guilty of

000010

gross or repeated malpractice or the failure to practice medicine
with that level of care, skill, and treatnent which is recognized
by a reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under
similar conditions and circumstances

QQQHILIEQ

19. Petitioner realleges ahd incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through fifteen (15) and seventeen (17), as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

20. Respondent is guilty of prescribing, dispensing,
administering, mixing or otherwise preparing a legend‘ drug,
including any controlled substance, other than in the course of the
physician's professional practice in that he stopped the Imuran,r
the immunosuppressant drug, when he added the Allopurinol to

.Patient #1’5 medication regimen and by so doing likely precipitated
the graft rejection.

21. Based on the ﬁreceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(q), Florida statutes, in that he is guilty of
prescribing, dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise
preparing a legend drug, including any controlled substance, other
than in the course of the physician's professional practice. For
the purposes of this paragraph, it shall be legally presumed that
pfescribing, dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise
preparing legend drugs, including all controlled substances,
inappropriately or in excessive or inappropriate quantities is not
in the best interest of the patient and is not in the course of the

physician’s professional practice, without regard to his intent.

0000M

QQQEI_IHEEE

22. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through fifteen (15), seventeen (17), and twenty (20), as if fully
set forth herein this Count Three.

23. Respondent is guilty of failing to keep written medical
records justifying the course of treatment of the patient in that
Respondent's medical records are lacking in substance and do not
justify his course of treatment. Specifically, Respondent's
progress notes on or about January 21, 1986, February 18, 1986, and
February 24, 1986, failed to document a detailed physical
examination, and those on or about February 18 and 24,1986, failed
to mention Patient {1's hypotension. {

24. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violatedi
Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida statutes, in that he is guilty or
failing to keep written medical records justifying the course of
treatment of the patient, including, but not limited to, patient
histories; exahination results; test results; records of drugs
prescribed, dispensed, or administered; and v report. of
consultations and hospitalizations.

QQDNI_EDHB

25. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through fifteen (15), seventeen (17), twenty (20), and twenty-three
(23), as if fully set forth herein this Count Four.

26. Respondent is guilty of practicing or offering to
practice beyond the scope permitted by law or accepting and

performing professional responsibilities which the licensee knows

000012

or has reason to know that he is not competent to perform by caring
for Patient #1, a kidney transplant patient, without having
received any special training in nephrology.

27. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(v), Florida statutes, in that Respondent is
guilty of practicing or offering to practice beyond the scope
permitted by law or accepting and performing professional
responsibilities which the licensee knows or has reason to know
that he is not competent to perform.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an order imposing one or more of tho following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s license,

restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an

ladministrative fine; issuénce of a reprimand, placement of the

OOUOIB

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this 7 day of W 1993.

——————___________I

George Stuart

    

. McPherson, r.
Ch at Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

 

Chief Medical Attorney

Florida Bar No. 788643 F l L E D

Department of Business and Dlpmmntofsusiness and From: ..._I;i.
Professional Regulation AGHVCYCURK

1940 North Monroe street
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792
WFW/BWM

PCP: September 14, 1993 cum 504014 ! “MW“‘
DAT I ‘3"%3

oooocu_

CERTEZICATE O? SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Hasan Ismail Zeya, M.D.
13907 North Dale Mabry, Tampa, Florida 33624, Grover Freeman,
Esquire, Freeman, Hunter & Malloy, 201 East Kennedy Boulevard,
Tampa, Florida 33602 and by interoffice delivery to Larry G.
McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney, Department of Business and
Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe
Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792, at or before 5:00 P.M.,

this Z? day of r , 1993.

'M? /W-

MARM M. HARRIS, Ph.D.
Executive Director

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROPESBIONAL REGULATION,
Petitioner,

V. DORE CASE NO. 93-2897
DPR CASE NO. 90-00252

HASAN ISMAIL ZBYA, H.D.,

Respondent.

 

QONSENT Aﬁkﬂﬁnﬁgx
HASAN ISMAIL ZEYA, M.D., referred to as the "Respondent," and

the Department of Business and Professional Regulation, referred to
as "Department," stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and-
v to the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to
as. "Board," incorporating the stipulated Facts and stipulated
Disposition in this matter.
I SIIEULATED EAQIS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed
physician in the state of Florida having been issued license number
HE 0039421.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules enacted
pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Adhinistrative
Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of

fact contained in the Administrative Complaint.

000003

WW

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458,
Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department and the
Board. I

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute violations of
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative
Complaint.

'1' U E 50$

1. £ﬂ1§3§_§¥ﬂﬂﬂﬂ:ﬁ; Respondent shall not in the future
violate Chapters 455, 458 and 893, Florida statutes, or the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto.

2. glﬂg; The Boaﬁd shall impose an administrative fine in

J?.cls’
the amount of ?EESSIIOO against the Respondent. The fine shall be

paid by the Respondent to the Board of Medicine within sixty (60)

days of its imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. LET:§EL9£_§QEQ§BE; The Respondent shall receive a Letter~
of Concern from the Board of Medicine.
4- QHALlilehﬁﬁHBAEQE_§QH§§LIAIIQE- An independent, certified

risk manager will review Respondent’s practice prior to the Board’s

consideration of this Agreement. Specifically, this independent

vﬂg_ﬂﬁ_,___________m
consultant shall review all the procedures performed by Respondent.

This consultant will prepare a report addressing Respondent's
practice. This report will include suggested improvements of the

quality assurance of Respondent's practice. Respondent will submit,

00000'4

to the Board this report and documentation that demonstrates his
compliance with the recommendations of the certified risk manager,
to include making appropriate referrals, when the Board considers
this Agreement.

5. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject
to the apprbval of the Board and the Department. In this regard,
the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs) shall
have no force and effect unless a Final Order incorporating the
terms of this Agreement is entered by the Board.

6. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting of
the Board where this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in
conjunction with the consideration of this Agreement by the Board,
shall respond to questions under oath from the Board, Board Staff;
or Depattment Staff. The Respondent shall be prepared to explain
the circumstances involVed in this matter and what measures have
been taken to prevent a recurrence.

7. should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by the Respondent may be used as
direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding; however,
such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment
purposes.

8. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this
joint Agreement and subsequent Final order incorporating same will
in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board and/or the
Department against the Respondent for acts or omissions Vnot

specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as'

nnnnn:

Exhibit A herein.

9. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Agreemeht.

10. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will beat his own attorney’s fees and
costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney’s fees 0; costs
from the Department in connection with this matter.

11. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent tor the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect tor
'this ceuse. In this regard; Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerhing
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the
Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by

the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or

000006

any of its members from further participation, consideration, or

resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED this 22 day of TC 7k _

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
COUNTY OF: Prnmﬂs

Before me, personally appeared HASH” ISHFHL ZE’YA- ,
whose identity is known to me by fi 5 (type of

.identification) and who, under oath, acknowledges that his/her
signature appears above.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 2J2’h day of
, 1993.

@,.;g @Qg Aim 1
N ARY P LIC '

GLORIA A ROBINSON

My Commission Exp'

APPROVED this ‘ '1: day of 2% 1, 1993.

George Stuart

  
  

<<i=_;s,===, ‘h-_:i=;5=:_4
B : Larry G. McPherson, Jr.
Chief Attorney

‘-- Section

 
  

 

W0 : ’ 000007

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUBINESE AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

Petitioner,

v. DBPR CAI. No. 90-00251
HABAN ISHAIL ZEYA, I.D.,

Respondent.

 

END! NIB

COMES NOW the Petitioner, the Department of Business and
Professional Regulation, hereinafter referred to as tha
"Petitioner," and files this Amended Administrativc ComplaintV
' bsfore the Board of Medicine against HASAN ISHAIL ZEYA, H.D.,
hereinafter referred to as "Respondent,“ and alleges:

> 1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the

practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida statutes;
Chapter 455, Florida statutes; and Chapter 458; Florida statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto a
licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0039421. Respondent’s last known address is
13907 North Dale Mabry, Tampa, Florida 33624.

3. At all times material hereto Respondent was a physidian
employed by International Medical Center Health Maintenance

Organization (HMO) in Tampa, Florida.

000008

4. On or about July 13, 1984, Patient #1, a forty-four (44)
year old male, enrolled with the IHC HMO for ongoing medical care
following a kidney transplant in 1982.

5. on or about October 9, 1985, Patient #1 first presented to
Respondent with a complaint of hyperglycenia.

6. At the time Patient #1 came under the Respondent's care,
Patient Il's medications included Imuran (an immunosuppressant),
Edecrin (a diuretic), Corgard (an antihypertensive), Prednisone (an
anti-inflammatory), and NPR and regular insulin.

7. On or about January 21, 1986, February 18, 1986, and
February 24, 1986, Respondent's progress notes failed to document
a detailed physical examination, and on or about February 18 and
24, 1986, failed to mention Patient ’1’: hypotension.

8. On or about February 19, 1986, Respondent added
Allopurinol to Patient {1’s medication regimen and stopped Imuran,
a drug used as an adjunct for the prevention of rejection in renal
homotransplantation, and by so doing likely precipitated the graft
rejection. _

9. oh or about February 26, 1986, Patient #1 was admitted to
Carrollwood Community Hospital with uncontrolled diabetes mellitus,
azotemia (an excess of urea and other nitrogenous waste in the
blood), and the possibility of renal insufficiency.

10. Respondent's care and treatment or Patient #1 was

inadequate and below the appropriate level of competence necessary

to manage a kidney transplant patient.

000009

