 

Finiaiom Ms. W

  

DEPARMM ‘01? PROFESSIOEAL
mnem,

Petitioner, _ '
V. DPR CREE HUEBER: 90'99227
LIﬂENSE RUEBER: 33 0015778, r
aanzga C1 DARTXﬂI, JR., ﬁ.D.i ~

Eesyundent .
f

WE
ms mama: came before the Boarci of Medians: ward) ipurauant ,

 

to Secticn 120.5?{3}, Ficrida ﬁtatutms, cm June 5, 1993. in West"
Pain search, Eiarida, far censidﬁration of a Consent Agreement.
{attamhaﬁ hereto as Exhibit A} entered izato hetwesn the partias in
ms amvanstylad cage». {ipan canstidaraticn af the; Cohsarm
Agreement, ms ammmtg sukkittmd I‘m suppcrt therecf; the
wants of thus partiea, and being otharwise advimd in they,
presim, L L

:3:- IS m2 0313mm Arm mwmm mat the {tonsent kgrgwenty>
as submitted be and is hereby approved anﬁ aaopted in toto aﬁd
incarparatad by reference herein. Accsordinglyy the partiem shall
adhere :0 and abide by all cf the terms; mid csnﬁitions of. the

ﬁmngent Agregaent .

 

swig Final Order takes effect: upun ﬁiling with‘tue elogxqt ,

the Department. {1‘
‘ )4

mm: AND ORDERED this 5? day Wg ' ‘,- 3.993;

307810 02? M&ICENE
:E

   

I EIMEY WIFE! that a true a 3 E‘Drraczt ccgay of tha'furegoim ‘-
haa bamprcwidad by certified 13.5” mail, to Daniel C. Dantihi, Jrﬁ, I
NJ)” 26 Hearth Beach streat, #6, Gimme! Beatrix, Flcrida 32.176,_
mavem 2., Ballingar. Esquire, mmxs 23‘: GREEN, 9.31.; 2600 £63.le
saniavarii, ﬁnite 312, Hmilgmmcé, ?laricia 33-020 and by iutat‘aftinu
dalivery to Larry 6. 3332163380“, Jr” Chief Medical Attorney,
Mparmn‘: of Profeasimnai Raguiaticn. lﬂortlwooﬁ tantra, 1940 North;
ﬁonroe Street, Tallahassee, Flerida 32399-0392, at or before 5:00

" KM” thiﬁ day of , 1993.

BGEOTHY S. FAIRCLOTK
Executive Direatar

 

Patient true ccndition; failed to adequately and prcperly treat
Patiént #1 for the trua csnﬁiticn he was suffering from; failad to
interpret or ignored the tests result» ebtained during the
examiaation cf 'Patient #1; and failad ‘tc provide the correﬁt
treataant far the conditicn Patient #1 presented with.

1V¢ Baseﬁ on tha preceﬂing allegatinng, Respondent violated
Sectian $53.33} (t), F;$rida Statutes by gross Gr rapanted
malgractice,nr the failurg ta practica madxcina with that level of
care, gkill, and treatment which is recngnized by a reasonably
pruéant physician as baiag &ccaptab1a undar similar canditions anﬁ
cixcumstan¢es.

EQQEELﬂﬁﬂiﬁﬁ

13. ?utitionar :aallegﬁu and incarpoxatsa paragraphs one (1}
thzcugh aaventeen {17“}g as is fukly sat tarth haruin this Count
Tﬁreﬁ‘

1?» Raspanaent failed to Reap writtaa medical records
ﬁustifying the course cf traatmant Q! the patient including, but
not liﬁiteﬁ to the fallswingz failed to reccrd a ﬁescription cf
.?atient*s i1’3 nasnpharynx and larynx; failed to mention the length
of time tha hearing had éean lost; failed t0 mention that Patient
#1 haé a long hiatory of ear problemﬁ; failad to mention the status
cf ?atient él'ﬁ general vascular haalth, wax in the ear and the
behayioz of the arum with gneumatic otasccpy; failed to document
tinéings ta suppart diagnosis of vamcular accident; failed ta
addregg andior establish the presence of regagnizeqlcriteria for a

making a diagnosis; faileé ac parform a sysﬁematic assessment of

 

Patient #1'5 condition; failed to establish a treatment plan for
Patiént #1 and/or faileé t0 disenss the reasons for not treating
Patient #1 and failed to reccrd the tuning fork exam.

20‘ Based on the foregaing. Respondent is in violation of
section 458.332(1){n) Flotiéa statutes, in that the Rsspondent
failed ta keep written medical r&cords justifying the course of
treatmaﬁt of the patient, including but, act limited t9 patient
histaries; examinaticn results: test xasults; records of drugs
prescribea, diapenaad, or administared, and reparts oi
consultatians and haspitalizations.

wﬁﬁgEFORE, the Petitisnar raapemttully raquests the Board of
Medicine entar an OIééz imyssing ens or mare Qf the followiné
peaaities: revocaticn a: suspanﬁian at tha Respcndent's license,
restriction 0f tha Raipaﬁdant’a gmacticmf im903ition of an
adminiamrative tine, iasuance at m raptimand; placement of the
Respandent on prabatian, anajar any other rslief that the Board
deeus aggrapriate.

SIGRED this 4% ﬂay 3f

 

chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTXEET:

 

Larry G. Mc?herson, Jr.
Chief ﬁedical Attorney ‘ F 3 g. E D
Departmeat of Professional Regulation Dﬁmﬂmaua?ﬁehahmuﬁmmmﬁm
1940 Earth Monroe Streeﬁ *GENCYC1ERK
Tallahassee, Florida 3239§~G750 g; “
Flcriﬁa Ear #788643 4 ‘Cij-
Ka&$£n, + Ebnguaa , (Q!%_gr“‘r
(0-17v‘?2~ ELERK u. ‘

5 ‘ _

DAVE

 

 

\ STEEE OI MGR!“ '
DBPARW O? PROFESSIW RBGM’XIOR

Dummm or mdrmzom
némwzcm,

aoeitionur,

DEVI mu m. §9~0922?
DANIEL: ‘C. WIN; um.

namnﬁnnt .

 

 

Daniel c. ﬁantiazi. Rd)”, referreﬁ to as the
"RQS§DW1€W&“, ami the Deyartment cm Prefessianal Regulation,
referrec’: to as “Department", stipulate ami agréa to the fallowing
Agreemént and to the eatry at a Final Order 0f the Board of
Medicinm raferrad ta as; “Egardm incarporating the stipulates?
, Facts and stipulated Digpasitiou in thia matter.

W
3.. lat a1}. times- material hereto, Respondent was. a licensed
physician} in tha state of Flerida having been issueii license number
ME 6157?8»
2‘ Respondent wag charge& by an Amended Administrative
Cowpiaint filed by the Degartment and prayer}; served upon

Respondant with violatiszms :33 Chapter 453, Flariég Statutes, and

1.

 

 

‘the rules enacted gursuant thereto. A trua and carrect copy at the
Amanﬁéd Administrative camplaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.
3. Rsspondent neither admits nor denies the allegations 6f
fact contained ih the Ameaded A&minﬁstrativa Complaint.
ﬂilfgﬁéiﬁﬁLﬁﬁﬂﬂﬂﬂﬁEEQ!§_Q£_§3!

x. Raapandant aémits that, in his cayacity an a licensed
phyaisian, he i3 subjﬁct ta ﬁha previsions cf Chapters #55 and 458,
Florida Statutea, and the juriadictian nf tha Departmant aha tha
Baaré.

2. Resyondent admitg that the facts set fcrth in tha Amended
A&miniatrative Complaint, if praven, vauld constitnta violations cf
Chaptar 458, Flnrida Statatea, a3 ailageﬁ in tho Auendai

Aﬁaini$trntivs camplaint.

 

1! g§2§ﬁ§_ggggg§g& Respcndent shall not in the future
violate ahapters #55, 658 and 393, Flaridé Statutes, or the rules

preaulgatad pursuant thereté.

2? £1!!& The Boaré shall impose an administrative fina in
the amcunt of five thousand dallars (S 5,060.00) against the
Respanéent. The fine shall be paid by the Respandent ta the Board
of Kadicine within ninety (90) days of its imposition by Final
Oréer cf the Beard.

3. 3323I§3gg& The Reggendent shall receive a reprimand from

the Eeard ef Medicine.

é» §§EIZ£EIE§.EEQU*

x.

 

:,
Respondent shall attend

 

forty {40} hours of Categary I Continuing Radical Education courses
within eightesn {13) months tram tha date of the Final Order of tha
Bcaré adopting this Consent $greement. Twenty (20} hours shall he
in risk management/reccrd keeping anﬁ twenty (20} hdurs in ER?

COUISES .

 

5. It ia expreasly undarstand that thia Agraanent is subject
ta tha appraval cf the Bcard and tha nepartmant. In this regard,
tag faregcing paragrayhs {3nﬁ enly tha fareqcing paragraphs) snail

_have na farca ané effect unleﬁa a Final Grier incorparating tha
terms wf this hgraaaaat is antexed by the Beard.

6. Rﬁspondent anal; a§gaar baﬂore the Board at thc meeting 0f
tha ﬁnard wheza this agtaemanc ia canaidérad. Roapondent, in
ccnjanctian with the cansiéeraticn cf this Agreement by Eh. Board,
ahali respand tn questiaﬁs undar oath frcm the soard, Board Staff
or Department staff.

7. ahould thia ﬁgzaemant he rejesteé, no statement mad: in
£urther&nca at this agreement by the Respandent may he used as
éirect avidence against the Respondant in any proceeding; however,
such statements may ha use& by tha Petitioner for impeachmant
9&rposgs‘

a. Raﬁpondent and the Department fully unéerstand that this

joint agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will
in 3% way preclude aﬁéiticnal procaedings by the ﬁgard and/or the

v

aspartment against the Respandent for acta or amiséions not

 

 

. _

:pecif:§.cai1y set forth in the Amended Administrativu- complaint
attached as Exhibit “A" herein. ‘ V

1;. Upon the Wﬁ's acinptien of this Agreemant, Responciom:
axpresaiy waivas all further Frocmral steps, and axpressly waivéa
all rights to seek judicial raviaw m? or to otherwise-challenga gu'
cnﬁtes‘é: tha valiclity cf the:- Agrmaﬂt am! the Fina}. Order 0: the

80mm: .inaorporatinq said Wﬁﬁmt.
m. Upon the soans’a aauption :3: this Agreemant‘, the part1“

hereby awn that. anal: party will bees: hiamm attorney's tau. ans
wats r‘asultim} tron gxegamtiﬂn ctr defense at this matter.
ﬂgmnﬁezut waives the sight ta max my attorney’s fees or augu—
trek tine: Bagutmmt in cwnectims with this matter.

11. This hgremnt is exacutml by the Raspondent tor the
pmaa at avoiding further adainimxativa action with rum ta
this cam. rm W13 :‘azjau'dI prmxdant authorizua the mid to
review and examine all investigatiw file materials concerning
Resgandem: grim: 1:13 am: in canjmction with csnaideration o: the
Agrawant. Furthmare, simuld this; joint Agroaaunt 'mt be
aacajpteﬁ by the Beam, it 5.3 agreed that presantaticn to and
ccnaideratian 01’ this agreement and other documenta and ”that's by
the Beard $31311 mat unfairly or illeagally prejudice the Board or
any of ita members; from further participation, consideration or

resolutian of thase praceedings.

 

Mare m, manually; paarmx DAXIEL . DWIHI, R.Eh,
Wham identity in 1mm to am Why -— (type of _
. iﬁwtifiaatlan) and §?th m; ackncwi 9“

his
gigna tum W2 abcve

Swan; #3: and suhaaribad befatu ma thief} day at

   

  

Ky WWII

Mvmm ”chm Z...“ way surf

 

, 1993.

maze Stuart
Secrmtm‘y

    

ﬁat; Attorney 7
adical Section

. STMEE 0F FLOREDA
. DEPARTEERT OF PRDFESSIOHAI. REGULATION
150m 13? MEDICINE

BEPARTHEN‘P OF PROFESSIONAL
REGUIATION,

?ETITIOKER,

VS» sass ??G. 90"39227
amIEL C. DWINI, EA).

RXSPUKBM »

 

comns NOH the Pmtiticmmr, Dapartuant o! Profnasienal
Ragulation, nnreiﬁafter rafarrom to an “9etitiancr,“ and files this
Amendeﬁ adminiﬁtrativé Complaint befnre tha Board of Hhéiciaé
against ﬂaﬂIEL c. DANQINI; u.n., hereinaftar ratervmd to as
“Resyandent,” and allegea:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with reguiating
tha practice of meéicine -gursunnt to Section 2a.30, Florida
ﬁtatutss; chapter 455, Florida Statutes; aﬁa chapter 458, Fieriaa
SL3 ates.

2“ Respondent is and has mean at all tinoa material heretw a
liaensaa physician in the stats at Floriéa; having been issued
iicansa number 88 $15?78. Reapmndent's last known address is
28 Earth Beach stgeet #c, 0mm Beach, Florida, 32174~5556¥

, 3. Von or about April 17, 19%0, Patiant #1, a sixtycsix {66)
year old male, preaanted to Rsspcndent‘s ofiice for medical

treatment due to Paﬁient $lis usual treating physicgan's inability

t5 see him.

 

4. Upon arrival at Regpondentfs office, Patient #1
comyiained of the falicwing: inability to hear cut of his right
eat; a faeling of inlinags in the right ear; and ocean roéring
saunas.

5. During this visit, Respendent perfornud a routine head,
new:f nose, and threat examination, and_diagnosed Patient #1 as_
having decreased haariag due ta a Vnanular acciﬂent in his right
ear(

5. On or abcut April 20, lﬁgﬁ, Patient #1 visitad his usual
traﬂting physisian $ha had Patient #1 undazgo ear wax remcval and
a5 &ndiogram, which 'revealaﬂ tuna aacay* anﬂ. deficient speech
ﬁiﬁﬂriminatian in hctﬁ‘aargﬁ

?. On at abent Hay 11, 1?90, Putieat #1 returned ta big
asua: physician and anderwsnt anothar audiograa which ravealed that
his haaring had improveﬁ‘

3. On or chant July i, 1990, Patiant #1 submitted &
coﬁplaint ta Patitionar along with a capy bf Raspondent's medical
recerds at the Rptil 3?, 1990 visit.

9. an ax abnut Qctober 1?, 1990; pursuant to Subpoena Duces
?&cum Number A619001, gaspcndant suhmitteé a cegy of Patiant #1’5
mgéiaal raanrﬂs inclading tha Aprii 1?, 1998 visit.

19. In comparing the copy uf Patient #1’3 medical records
submitted by Patient $1 with the cayv aubmitted by Respondent, it
is evident that Respendent added the fallawing information without
dating or initialing the additional entries: ”has Hgd symptoms for

weeks;“ "Possible tistaia but no vertigo;” and “Needs audio."

 

3.1. Reapondent inappropriatez‘ly added additidnal entries to
Patiént 51's meéicai reaords without 6&1:ng m: initial‘ihg' the
entries. I

W

12. Petitioner reauagaa and immorates paragraphs ans {3.}
thrmxgh elem {11}, as if fully amt forth 21min this Cami: Gne._

11. Respomient is: guilty am making dmgtive, untrus', or
‘ framiulent reptsmtatimzs m an related to the practicé cf
méimﬁne or «playing a trick. car swam in the practice of
mﬁkima, in that Rsswmiant aﬁcim‘ﬁ additicnal entriu takpmzient
#1’3 maciicui racqrds witheut; dating mr initialing tbs antrieé.

M. 339% on tbs): graminq allegaticma, Rwyoﬁdant violatea
Seaman 453.33M1} (IQ, ?larida Staﬁutea, by making damptiva,
untrma, or fraudulent ragrawanmtmm in or ralatad 1:0 the Fractiae

cf wadicina m:- smylaying a trick 0}: scum in the practice: cf

mﬁcin‘a.
mm ‘

15‘ ?etitiona: rmlﬁages and incorporatas paragraphs one (i)
_ thraugh taurtam 14, as if £11113! set forth heraim this Count Twc.

15. Raspondmnt failed tn pxactice mdicina with that level of
cai'a, skill and: treatmt which as z-eaacnably prudent similar
phyaisian recognizes as: accaptable under sauna:- conditions and
cirqumstancaa, in that Respondent: f?” 11w to properly diagnoma and
discavex the tum natura a: the dismrder causing the symptomolcgy
in ?atient #1; failad to prescribe, ordsr, pegfom indicated

diégnaatic tests anﬁ praaadurea which wculd have diagnosed the

3

