FILED

Department 01 Business and Promgonal Regulation
DHUTYCURK

. LT :.
93 SEP -7 qﬁfﬂREEENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION }:<;égvl
M
«OBAQ

BOARD OF HEDIC INE

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,

Petitioner,

—vs— DBPR CASE NUMBER: 90—05971
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0033016
MARK SCHEINBERG, M.D., , /l/

\f’
Respondent. ‘
/ <7

FINAL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.S7(3), Florida Statutes, on August 6,
1993, in Tampa, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties
in the above—styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent
Agreement, the documents Submitted in support thereof, the
arguments of the parties, and being otherwise advised in the
premises, the Board rejected the Consent Agreement proposed and
offered an amendment at the hearing, which amendment was accepted
without objection by the partiES.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and hereby is approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein with the following:

In addition, Respondent is hereby REPRIHANDBD.

Accordingly, the parties shall adhere to and abide by the

terms and conditions of the Consent Agreement as amended.

 

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department of Business and Professional Regu

DONE AND ORDERED this 3! day Of

CERTIFICATL

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Mark
Scheinberg, M.D., 4101 N.W. 4th Street, #309, Ft. Lauderdale,
Florida 33317, Wilson Jerry Foster, Esquire, 227 East Virginia
Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32301, and by interoffice delivery
to Larry C. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney, Department of
Business and Professional Regulation, 1940 North Monroe Street,
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792, at or before 5:00 P.M., this

day of 1993.

 

penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this (i day of , 1993.

ge uart, Secretary

arty G. McPherson,
Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Chief Hedical Attorney

Department of Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750
Florida Bar I788643

LGM/jto

PCP: January 29, 1993 F I L E D
Hurray, Rodriguez and Slade

Depanment of Professional Regulanon

- DEPUTY CLE 3/
C/LERKW

DATE __Q_Ll:_’z5___

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD O? MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT or PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,
pawxwxousa,
vs. CASE NO. 9006971
mum SCHEINBERG, 14.9.

RESPONDENT .
/

W

COMES Now the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as “Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
Hark Scheinberq, H.D., hereinafter referred to as “Respondent," and
alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the state of Florxda, having been issued
license number KB 0033016‘ Respondent's last known address is 4101
NW lth Street [309, Ft. Lauderdale. Florida 33317.

3. Respondent's area or practice 1: obstetrics—gynecology

(oa—cm) .

I. On numerous and various occasions from 1989 through‘199o,

Respondent treated Patient '1, a thirty-tive (35) year old female,

 

tor Iclory lOIl, dilorientation, emaciation and the inability to
ruad or write.

5. Respondent's examination 0! Patient I1 revealad an
Abnorlal neurological exam with poor orientation, incontinence, and
lutt sided weakness with pseudo decerebrate positioning, which is
the posture Assumed by a patient in A state of decerebrate
rigidity. Limbs are stittly extended, the head retracted, and
these postures become exaggerated in response to painful stimuli.

6. Respondent diagnosed Patient I1 as suffering from an
acute psychotic reaction and treated her with home therapy which
included: acupuncture, therapeutic massage and meditation.

7. Respondent has practiced as an OB—GYN in the State of
Florida since in or about August of 1978.

8. Respondent stated in a letter to the Department that he
has no specialty training in the field of psychiatry and that he
has never treated patients as a psychiatrist.

9. A subsequent treating physician, Dr. Alqa Morales,
recommended immediate hospitalization of Patient I1 to University
Pavillion Hospital for psychiatric treatment.

10. Respondent lublequently encouraged Patient Ii not to be
admitted to a psychiatric hospital.

11. Respondent failed to refer Patient I1 tor the appropriate
psychiatric consultation.

12. Respondent's nodical records failed to provide medical

justilication tor discouraging Patient Ii’s admission to the

hospital, and tor providing her medical treatment at her hone.

 

13. Rupondont'l lcdical record. tnilcd to mention th- use of
acupuncture, thorapcutio nuuaqe or leditation as medical treatment
(or Puticnt '1.

99mm

16. Pctitioncr rcallogeu and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through thirtccn (1:!) , as it fully let forth herein this Count One.

15. Ralpondent 15 guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or
tho failure to practicc nadicinc with that level of care, skill,
and trontlont which 1. rccognlzad by a reasonably prudent Ilnllar
physician ac being acceptablo under similar conditions and
circumstances in that Respondant failed to appropriately treat
I'atiant '1'. acute psychotic reaction by discouraging her admission
to a psychiatric hospital, and by failing to refer Patiant 11 for
appropriate psychiatric consultation.

16. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
453.331 (1) (t) , Florida statutes, gross or repeated malpractica or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and

circumstances.

W

17. Potitloner realleqel and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

through thirtcen (13) and tiiteen (15), a5 1! (ully set forth
herein this Count Two.
18. Respondent is guilty 0! practicing or offering to

practice beyond the scope permitted by law or acceptlhé and

 

patterning prohnlonal rc-ponubilitiu which tho license. knows

or hll rulon to know that ha 1- not conpotcnt to porton in that
Respondent practiced beyond the scope or his OB—GYN practice by
treating Putiont II. for In acute psychotic reaction without any
psychiatric training.

19. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
{58.331 (1) (v), Florida Statutes, practicing or ottering to
practice beyond the scope permitted by law or accepting and
performing professional responsibilities which the licensee knows
or has reason to know that he is not competent to pertom.

ME

20. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through thirtoan (13), fifteen (15) and eighteen (18), as if fully
Iot forth herein this Count Three.

21. Respondent is guilty of failing to keep written medical
records justifying the course or treatment of the patient in that
Respondent tailed to provide medical justification for discouraging
Patient I1 from entering a psychiatric hospital; Respondent failed
to provide medical justification for treating Patient I1 at her
home instead of the hospital; and Respondent's medical records
failed to nontion the use of acupuncture, therapeutic massage and
uditation in his Iodical troatnent of Patient I1.

22. Band on thn toragoing, Respondent violated section
458.331 (1) (I) , Florida Statutes, failing to keep written Iodical
rocordl justifying tho course or treatment of the patient,

Including, but not united to, patient histories; examination

 

results,- tclt results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or
adminiltcx‘od; and reports of consultations and hospitalization.

WHERENRZ, the Petitioner respectfully request- the Board of

Medicine .nter an Order imposing one or more at the following

penalties: revocation or suspension or the Respondent's license,
restriction ot the Respondent's practice, imposition 0! an
administrative tine, iauuanca of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/ar my other renal that the Board
deems appropriate.

/ 7
SIGNED thin /\j day at , 1993.

George t rt, Secretary

. McPherson,
let Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTHENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Chic: Xedical Attorney

Department of Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe Stnet
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750

337:2: Bar I788643 F I L E D

PCP: Janu 29 1993 .
Hurray, Re:ﬁgue; and Slade DepanmentoimeessionalRegulanm.

DEPUTY CLE

 

STATE OF YLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

szmmm or Pnorasszonu
n26 unnon,

Petitioner,
V. DPR CASE NO. 90-6971
Hark Echainbarq, H.D.,
Respondent.
/
CONSENT AGREEMENT

Hark Scheinberg, H.D., referred to as the "Respondent", and
the Department of Professional Regulation, referred to as
"Department", Stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and to
the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as
"Board", incorporating the stipulated Facts and stipulated
Disposition in this matter.

§_L£ELAI§Q_EAQZ§

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed
physician in the State of Florida having been issued license number
HE 0033016.

2. Respondent was charged by an Amended Administrative
Complaint filed by the Department and properly served upon
Respondent with violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and
the rules enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the
Amended Administrative Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegatibns of

tact contained in the Amended Administrative Complaint.

 

EIIIELLIID~§QHQH§§HBEL£E_LAE

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458,
Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department and the
Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the Amended
Administrative Complaint, 1f proven, would constitute violations of
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Amended
Administrative Complaint.

STIPULRTED DISPOSITION

1. FUTURE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the future
violate Chapters 455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto.

2. EgggL The Board shall impose an administrative fine
in the sum of $3,000.00 against the Respendent. The fine shall be
paid by the Respondent to the Board of Medicine within ninety (90)
days of its imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. OBLIGATIONSlREQUIREHEN’I‘S. Respondent Shall appear
before the Board at the meeting of the Board where this Agreement

is considered. Respondent, in conjunction with the consideration

of this Agreement by the Board, shall respond to questions under

oath from the Board, Board staff or Department staff. Respondent
also may be required to demonstrate that he has reviewed and
understands Section 458.331(1)(v), Florida statutes, which is the
provision dealing with scope of practice. N

4. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject

to the approval of the Board and Department. In this regard, the

 

toregoing paragraphs (and only the toregoing paragraphs) shall have
no torce and attect unless a Final Order incorporating the terms of
this Agreement is entered by the Hoard.

5. Should this agreement be rejected, no statement made in
turtherance 0! this Agreement by Respondent may be used as direct
evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding; however, such
statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment purposes.

6. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this
joint Agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will
in no way preclude additional proceedings against Respondent for
acts or omissions not specifically set forth in the Administrative
Complaint attached as Exhibit "A" herein.

7. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps, and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Agreement.

8. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will bear her own attorney’s fees and
costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney’s fees or costs
from the Department in connection with this matter.

9. This agreement is executed by the Respondent for the

purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to

this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to

review and examine all investigative file materials concerning

Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the

 

Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by
the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the board or
any of its members from further participation, consideration, or

resolution of these proceedings.

Before me, personally appeared at Scheinberg, .D. ,
whose identity is known to me by B (type of
identification) and who, under oat , a that her

signature appears above.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this jEi day of July, 1993.

NOTARY PUBLICg ““

w ‘ 0“

My Commission Expires: k

"4““ v... .‘au

Approved this <__ day of July,

George Stuart

Secretaryﬂ

Larr§ G. McPhers
chief Attorney
Medical Section

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT or PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,
pmxnonaa,
vs. CASE NO. 9006971
HARK SCHEINBERG, “.0.

RESPONDENT.
/

AMENQED ADHIEISIRATIVE COMPLAINT

COMES Now the Petitioner, Department of Professional

Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this

Amended Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine

against Mark Scheinberg, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0033016. Respondent's last known address is 4101
NW 4th Street I309, Ft. Lauderdale, Florida 33317.

3. Respondent's area of practice is obstetrics-gynecology

(OB—GYN).
4. On March 19, 1990 through April 10, 1990, Respundent

treated Patient :1, a thirty-tive (35) year old female, for memory

 

loss, disorientation, emaciation and the inability to read or
vrate.

5. Respondent's examination of Patient I1 revealed an
abnormal neurological exam with poor orientation, incontinence, and
left sided weakness with pseudo decerebrate positioning, which is
the posture assumed by a patient in a state of decercbrate
rigidity.

6. Respondent diagnosed Patient I1 as suffering from an
acute psychotic reaction and treated her at home.

7. Respondent has practiced as an OB-GYN in the State of
Florida since in or about August of 1978.

8. Respondent stated in a letter to the Department that he
has no specialty training in the field of psychiatry and that he
has never treated patients as a psychiatrist.

9. A subsequent treating physician, Dr. Alga Morales,
recommended immediate hospitalization of Patient I1 to University
Pavillion Hospital for psychiatric treatment.

10. Respondent subsequently assisted the husband in
encouraging Patient I1 not to be admitted to a psychiatric
hospital.

11. Respondent failed to refer Patient 11 for the appropriate
psychiatric consultation.

12. Respondent’s medical records failed to provide medical

justification for discouraging Patient [1's admission to the

hospital, and for providing her medical treatment at her home.

 

w

)3. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

through thirteen (13), as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

14. Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances in that Respondent failed to appropriately treat
Patient Il’s acute psychotic reaction by assiting her husband in
discouraging her admission to a psychiatric hospital, and by
failing to refer Patient I1 for appropriate psychiatric
consultation.

15. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated section
458.331 (1) (t) , Florida Statutes, gross or repeated malpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances.

QQQEI_IEQ

16. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through thirteen (13) and fifteen (15), as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

17. Respondent is guilty of practicing or offering to

practice beyond the scope permitted by law or accepting and

performing professional responsibilities which the licensee knows

or has reason to know that he is not competent to perform in that

 

 

v. .,

. 1,. s A

Respondent practiced beyond the scope of his oB—GYN practice by
treating Patient I1 with an acute psychotic reaction without any
psychiatric training.

13. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331 (1) (v) , Florida Statutes, practicing or offering to
practice beyond the scope permitted by law or accepting and
performing professional responsibilities which the licensee knows
or has reason to know that he is not competent to perform.

COUNT THREE

19. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through thirteen (13), fifteen (15) and eighteen (18), as if fully
set forth herein this Count Three.

20. Respondent is guilty of failing to keep written medical
records justifying the course of treatment of the patient in that
Respondent failed to provide medical justification for discouraging
Patient [1 from entering a psychiatric hospital; Respondent failed
to prcvide medical justification for treating Patient I1 at her
home instead of the hospital.

21. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331 (1) (m), Florida Statutes, failing to keep written medical

records justifying the course of treatment of the patient,

including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination

requts; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or
administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations.
HﬁEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of

Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following

 

