FILE!)

Department of Professional Re;-_u'~" m
AGENCY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULAT f? (I f k1}-
BOARD OF MEDICINE (é;
Ox/

 

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL CLERK
REGULATION - ,
' DATE £1;
Petitioner,
V. DPR CASE NUMBER: 90-04590

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0022889

RAMARAO NAIDU, M.D.,

Respondent.

/
M

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on August 4, 1991, in Palm
Beach, Florida, for consideration of a Stipulation (attached hereto
as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the above—styled
case. Upon consideration of the stipulation, the documents
submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the parties, and
being otherwise advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulation as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the

Stipulation.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department.

DONE AND ORDERED this 62% day , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

/,
/
MNH)’ -
//‘2/’ /
ZACHARIAH P. ZACHARIAH, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

 

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
a

c/o Robert B. Hulnick, Jr., Esquire, 305 North High Street, P.O.
Box 415, West Chester, Pennsylvania 19381~0415 and by interoffice
delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney,
Department of Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North

Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792, at or before 5:00

“C A 2:
P.M., this 5 day of c {4.]¢ , 1991.

 

 

Executive Director

as is necessary to assure that the continuing education
requirements are met.

7. Pursuant to Rule 21M-28.002(5), Florida Administrative
Code, the following courses have been approved by the Board of
Medicine for continuing education:

a. Organized courses approved for American Medical
Association Category I Continuing Medical Education credits or
accepted for the American Medical Association physician
recognition award.

b. Any postgraduate training program accredited by the
Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education.

c. The following specialty training: American College
of Emergency Physicians, Category I; American Academy of Family
Physicians prescribed credit; and American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists cognates.

8. On or about February 16, 1988, Respondent signed the
following statement which was thereafter submitted as part of the
request to renew his license to practice medicine:

I hereby certify that during the period

January 1, 1986, through December 31, 1987, I

have obtained no fewer than forty (40) hours of

continuing medical education courses which meets

the requirement of Chapter 455.213(5), Florida

Statutes, and Rule 21M-28.002(6) Florida

Administrative Code. I further certify that at

least five (5) of the forty (40) hours concern

risk management pursuant to Rule 21M-28.002(2)

Florida Administrative Code. I understand that

I must maintain such receipts, vouchers,

certificates, or other papers to document

completion of the CME requirements for a period

of not less than four (4) years from the date the
course was taken.

correct and recognize that providing false
information may result in a fine, suspension or
revocation of my license as provided in Florida
Statutes 455.2275, 775.082, or 775.084.

the renewal process for the licensing period from January 1,
1988, through December 31, 1989. Without this statement,
Respondent could not have renewed his license to practice
medicine in Florida.

10. Thereafter, Respondent successfully renewed his

license to practice medicine in Florida. That renewal was based,

11. Thereafter, Respondent was selected randomly for audit
purposes to verify his continuing medical education for the
period covered in his statement (January 1, 1986 through December
31, 1987). By letter dated November 30, 1988, from the Executive
Director for the Board of Medicine, Respondent was asked to
provide such documentation.

12. On or about January 3, 1989, Respondent submitted
documentation for continuing medical education for the relevant
time period; however, he failed to submit documentation regarding
risk management requirements for said time period.

13. On or about June 14, 1990, Respondent submitted a

letter to Petitioner stating, in part the following:

credits required on Risk Management for
January 1986 through December 31, 1987.
It was not until 1989 that I was informed
that five credit hours were required

in Risk Management, which I obtained

through the Postgraduate Assembly in New
York, December 9-13, 1989.

period from January 1, 1986, through December 31, 1987, in
response to the Board's random audit, and thereby failed to
comply with Rule 21M-28.002, Florida Administrative Code.

16. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331(1)(x), Florida Statutes, by violating
any provision of this chapter, a rule of the board or department,
or a lawful order of the board of department previously entered

"in a disciplinary hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully

issued subpoena of the department.
CQHNI_IHQ
17. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one

(1) through thirteen (13) and fifteen (15) as if fully set forth

herein this Count Two.

18. Respondent renewed his license by fraudulent

misrepresentation, in that Respondent falsely certified that he
completed the continuing medical education requirements for the
period from January 1, 1986, through December 31, 1987.

19. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331(1)(a), Florida Statutes, attempting to
obtain, obtaining, or renewing a license to practice medicine by

bribery, by fraudulent misrepresentations, or through an error of

the department or the board.

restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this ﬂday of éﬁw , 1990.

Larry Gonzalez, Secretary

37AM

By: Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

FILED

Department of Professional Regulation
AGENCY CLERK

 

 

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson

Senior Attorney

Florida Bar No. 788643

Dept. of Professional Regulation
1940 N. Monroe Street, Ste. 60
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792
(904) 488—0062

CJR/BG/ecs
d:ecs
7/24/90

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE BEARINGS

 

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
v. DPR CASE NO.: 90-04590
RAMARAO NAIDU, M.D.,

Respondent.
Ml
STIPULATION

Ramarao Naidu, M.D., the Respondent, and the Department of

Professional Regulation, referred to as Department, stipulate and

Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as Board,

incorporating this Stipulation and the agreement in this matter.

§ILEQLAIEQ_EAQI§

violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules enacted

pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative

Exhibit A.

STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
______________________________

1. Respondent,

Department and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the

Administrative Complaint, if proven, constitute violations of

Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative

Complaint.

STlPULATED DISPOSITION

Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters 455,
458 and 893, Florida Statutes,

l.

or the rules promulgated pursuant
thereto.

2. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in the

amount of $1,000.00 against the Respondent. The fine shall be paid

by the Respondent to the Executive Director of the Board within

thirty days of the imposition by Final order of the Board.

The Respondent shall receive a reprimand from the Board
of Medicine.

4. Within six months of the filing of the Final Order

incorporating the terms of this Stipulation, Respondent shall

submit documentation to demonstrate his compliance with all of the

continuing education requirements for the 1986 - 1987 and 1988

1989 licensing bienniums. Such documentation shall consist of

certified copies of the receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other

papers, such as the physician's recognition awards issued by the

American Medical Association, as may be necessary to document

completion of the continuing education. In the event that
Respondent fails to timely document compliance with all of the
continuing education requirements for the relevant time periods
Respondent's license to practice medicine shall be suspended until
such time as documentation of compliance is received by the Board.

5. Within six months of the Filing of the Final Order
incorporating the terms of this Stipulation, Respondent shall
attend 5 hours of Category I Continuing Medical Education courses

in the area of risk management. Respondent shall submit a written

courses. In addition, Respondent shall submit documentation (in
the form of certified copies of receipts, vouchers, certificates,
or other papers, such as the physician's recognition awards issued
by the American Medical ASSOCiation, as may be necessary to
document completion of the continuing education) of completion of
these continuing medical education courses within six months of the
entry of the Final Order in this matter. These hours shall be in
addition to those hours required for renewal of licensure. Unless
otherwise approved by the Board or the chairman of the
Probationer's Committee, said continuing education courses shall
consist of a formal live lecture format. In the event that
Respondent fails to timely document completion of the risk

management courses Respondent's license to practice medicine shall

be suspended until such time as documentation of compliance is

received by the Board.

6. Prior to renewing his license at the end of the 1990 -

vouchers, certificates, or other papers, such as the physician's
recognition awards issued by the American Medical Association, as
may be necessary to document completion of the continuing
education.

7. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply with

the terms of the Final Order issued based on this Stipulation.

this Stipulation, the cost of analysis of any blood or urine
specimens submitted pursuant to this Stipulation, and the Board's
administrative costs directly associated with Respondent's
probation. See Section 458.331(2), Florida Statutes.

8. It is expressly understood that this Stipulation is
subject to the approval of the Board and the Department. In this
regarding the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing
paragraphs of the stipulated Facts, stipulated Conclusions of Law
and stipulated Disposition) shall have no force and effect unless
a Final Order is entered incorporating the terms of this
Stipulation, by the Board.

9. Should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement made in

furtherance of this Stipulation by the Respondent may be used as

direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding. However,
such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment
purposes.

10. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this
joint Stipulation and subsequent Final Order incorporating same
will in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board and/or
the Department against the Respondent for acts or admissions not
specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as
Exhibit "A" herein.

11. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps, and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of the joint Stipulation of facts, conclusions
of law and imposition of discipline, and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Stipulation.

12. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation, the
parties hereby agree that each party will bear his own attorney's
fees and costs resulting from prosecution and/or defense of this
proceeding. Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's
fees or costs from the Department in connection with this
disciplinary proceeding.

13. This Stipulation is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent, as well as any factual statements provided by

Respondent or Respondent's counsel, prior to or in conjunction with

consideration of the Stipulation. Furthermore, should this joint
Stipulation not be accepted by the Board, it is agreed that
presentation to and consideration of this Stipulation and other
documents and matters by the Board shall not unfairly or illegally
prejudice the Board or any of its members from further

participation, consideration or resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED this tgq, day of

   
   
 

Sworn to and subscribed
before neat

My Commission Expires: Mmthmmmawmwnmmdens

/
APPROVED this Z 2 day of £242 , 1991.

George Stuart
Secretary

me

.McPherson,
ChiefG Attorney
Medical Section

  

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

CASE NO. 9904590
V.

RAMARAO NAIDU, M.D.,

Respondent.
/
____________________________

COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against Ramarao Naidu, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes, Chapter 455, Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been
issued license number ME 0022889. Respondent's last known
address is 7 Caswallen Drive, West Chester, Pennsylvania 19380—
4113.

3. Pursuant to Section 455.213(5), Florida Statutes, as a

condition of renewal of a license, the Board of Medical Examiners

concern risk management. Criteria for, and content of,
continuing education courses shall be approved by the Board.
4. Pursuant to Rule 21M-28.002, Florida Administrative

Code, every physician licensed pursuant to Chapter 458, Florida

Statutes, shall be required to complete forty (40) hours of

established by the Department. At least five (5) of such
continuing medical education hours required for renewal shall
concern risk management.

5. Pursuant to Rule 21M-28.002(2)(a), Florida
Administrative Code, risk management means the identification,
investigation, analysis, and evaluation of risks and the
selection of the most advantageous method of correcting,
reducing, or eliminating, identifiable risks.

6. Pursuant to Rule 2lM-28.002(3), Florida Administrative

continuing education. Additionally, the licensee must retain
such receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other papers, such as
physician recognition awards issued by the American Medical
Association, as may be necessary to document completion of the
continuing medical education listed on the renewal form for a
period of not less than four years from the date the course was

taken. The Board will randomly audit such numbers of licensees

