FILEDW“

DeDarimem oi FVOYCSSKIIIEF Reuu‘aﬁon
AGENCY LLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGELAT
BOARD OF MEDICINE / (1249
vsm/

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL CLERK

REGULATION, : f ,9 [
DATE v
Petitioner,
~vs— DPR CASE NUMBER: 90-04596

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0026004
THEODORE H. BODNER, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on June 2, 1991,
in Orlando, Florida, for consideration of a Stipulation (attached
hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the
above—styled case. Upon consideration of the Stipulation, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulation as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the
Stipulation.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department.

<6“
DONE AND ORDERED this Z k day of éﬁéj : , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDiCINE

”WW
ZACHARI P. ZACHARIAH, M.D.

CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Theodore
H. Bodner, M.D., 1190 The Strand, Teaneck, New Jersey 07666-2018,
and by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Acting
Chief Medical Attorney, Department of Professional Regulation,

Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida

?Vk
32399-0792, at or before 5:00 P.M., this Z 2 day of

ﬂ, E z: , 1991.

  

Lgﬁﬁzzz

OROTHY J5 IRCLOTH
Executive Director

    

as is necessary to assure that the continuing education
requirements are met.

7. Pursuant to Rule 21M—28.002(5), Florida Administrative
Code, the following courses have been approved by the Board of
Medicine for continuing education:

a. Organized courses approved for American Medical
Association Category I Continuing Medical Education credits or
accepted for the American Medical Association physician
recognition award.

b. Any postgraduate training program accredited by the
Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education.

c. The following specialty training: American College
of Emergency Physicians, Category 1; American Academy of Family
Physicians prescribed credit; and American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists cognates.

8. On or about November 6, 1987, Respondent signed the
following statement which was thereafter submitted as part of the
request to renew his license to practice medicine:

I hereby certify that during the period

January 1, 1986, through December 31, 1987, I

have obtained no fewer than forty (40) hours of

continuing medical education courses which meets

the requirement of Chapter 455. 213(5), Florida

Statutes, and Rule 21M- 28. 002(6) Florida

Administrative Code. I further certify that at

least five (5) of the forty (40) hours concern

risk management pursuant to Rule 21M-28.002(2)

Florida Administrative Code. I understand that

I must maintain such receipts, vouchers,

certificates, or other papers to document

completion of the CME requirements for a period

of not less than four (4) years from the date the
course was taken.

0013132} 3

I affirm that these statements are true and
correct and recognize that providing false
information may result in a fine, suspension or
revocation of my license as provided in Florida
Statutes 455.2275, 775.082, or 775.084.

9. The aforementioned statement was required as part of
the renewal process for the licensing period from January 1,
1988, through December 31, 1989. Without this statement,
Respondent could not have renewed his license to practice
medicine in Florida.

10. Thereafter, Respondent successfully renewed his
license to practice medicine in Florida. That renewal was based,
in part, on the aforementioned statement regarding completion of
Continuing Medical Education.

11. Thereafter, Respondent was selected randomly for audit
purposes to verify his continuing medical education for the
period covered in his statement (January 1, 1986 through December
31, 1987). By letter dated November 30, 1988, from the Executive
Director for the Board of Medicine, Respondent was asked to
provide such documentation.

12. On or about December 15, 1988, a notary from
Respondent's office submitted documentation of Respondent‘s
continuing medical education for the relevant time period;
however, Respondent failed to submit documentation of the
required risk management credits for the relevant time period.

CQHHI_QNH
13. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one

(1) through twelve (12) as if fully set forth herein this Count

One.

005.72") 4

14. Respondent violated a rule of the Board, in that
Respondent failed to submit documentation verifying the risk
management requirement of continuing medical education for the
period of January 1, 1986, through December 31, 1987, in response
to the Board's random audit, and thereby failed to comply with
Rule 21M—28.002, Florida Administrative Code.

15. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331(1)(x), Florida Statutes, by violating
any provision of this chapter, a rule of the board or department,
or a lawful order of the board of department previously entered
in a disciplinary hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully
issued subpoena of the department.

CQHNI.IHQ

16. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through twelve (12) and fourteen (14) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

17. Respondent renewed his license by fraudulent
misrepresentation, in that Respondent falsely certified that he
completed the continuing medical education requirements for the
period from January 1, 1986 through December 31, 1987.

18. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331(1)(a), Florida Statutes, attempting to
obtain, obtaining, or renewing a license to practice medicine by

bribery, by fraudulent misrepresentations, or through an error of

the department or the board.

Goggix 5

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent‘s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this £7¥Lday of ggégﬁ£:13§2ﬁzﬂ:, 1990.

Larry Gonzalez, Secretary

(942162?

By: Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson
Senior Attorney

Florida Bar No. 788643 F I L E E)
Dept. of Professional Regulation

1940 N. Monroe Street, Ste. 50 DemnnmntofmnmgbnmReyﬂmkn
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792 AGENCYCLERK

(904) 498-0062

CJR/BG/ecs % “Q @L/
dzecs

7/13/90

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
Rmmunmm
Petitioner,
DOAH CASE NO. 90-7207
v. DPR CASE NO. 90-04596

THEODORE H. BODNER, M.D.,
Respondent.

/

STIPULATIQN

Theodore H. Bodner, M.D., "Respondent", and the Department of Professional
Regulation, referred to as "Department", stipulate and agree to the following joint
Stipulation and to the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as

Board, incorporating this Stipulation and the agreement in this matter.

STIP [J I ATED FACT§

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed physician in the State
of Florida having been issued license number ME 0026004.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint filed by the
Department and properly served upon Respondent with violations of Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, and the rules enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the
Administrative Complaint is attached hereto and incorporated by reference as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of fact contained in the

Administrative Complaint attached hereto as Exhibit A.

Uﬁelql

TIPLATED NL IN FLAW

1. Respondent, in his capacity as a licensed physician, admits that in such capacity
he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the
jurisdiction of the Department and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the allegations relating to Count One in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, constitute violations of Chapter 458.331(1)(x),
Florida Statutes, as alleged.

3. The Department agrees to voluntarily dismiss Count Two of the
Administrative Complaint, upon the Board's acceptance of this Stipulation.

TIP ATED DISP [T] N

1. Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters 455, 458 and 893, Florida
Statutes, or the rules promulgated pursuant thereto.

2. The Board shall impose an administrative ﬁne in the amount of $1,000.00
against the Respondent. The fine shall be paid by the Respondent to the Executive
Director of the Board within thirty (30) days of the imposition by Final Order of the
Board.

3. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand from the Board of Medicine.

4. Within six months of the filing of the Final Order incorporating the terms of
this Stipulation, Respondent shall submit documentation to demonstrate his compliance
with all of the continuing education requirements for the 1986-1987 and 1988-1989
licensing bienniums. Documentation that the Respondent has "made up" the continuing
education requirements for the relevant periods shall satisfy this requirement. Such
documentation shall consist of certified copies of the receipts, vouchers, certiﬁcates, or
other papers, such as the physician's recognition awards issued by the American Medical

2

UCJLQE

Association, as may be necessary to document completion of the continuing education.
In the event that Respondent fails to timely document compliance for the relevant time
periods, Respondent's license to practice medicine shall be suspended until such time as
documentation of compliance is received by the Board.

5. Within six months of the Filing of the Final Order incorporating the terms
of this Stipulation, Respondent shall attend five (5) hours of Category I Continuing
Medical Education courses in the area of risk management. Respondent shall submit a
written plan to the Chairman of the Probationer’s Committee for approval prior to the
completion of said continuing education hours. The Board confers authority on the
chairman of the Probationer's Committee to approve or disapprove said continuing
education courses. In addition, Respondent shall submit documentation (in the form of
certified copies of receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other papers, such as the physician's
recognition awards issued by the American Medical Association, as may be necessary to
document completion of the continuing education) of completion of these continuing
medical education courses within six months of the entry of the Final Order in this
matter. These hours shall be in addition to those hours required for renewal of
Iicensure. Unless otherwise approved by the Board or the chairman of the Probationer's
Committee, said continuing education courses shall consist of a formal live lecture format.
In the event that Respondent fails to timely document completion of the risk
management courses Respondent's license to practice medicine shall be suspended until
such time as documentation of compliance is received by the Board.

6. Prior to renewing his license at the end of the 1990-1991 biennium,
Respondent shall be required to document compliance with the continuing education

requirements for that period. Such documentation shall consist of certified copies of the

3

OC;L;J

receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other papers, such as the physician's recognition awards
issued by the American Medical Association, as may be necessary to document
completion of the continuing education.

7. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply with the terms of the
Final Order issued based on this Stipulation. Such costs include. but are not limited to,
the cost of preparation of investigative reports detailing compliance with the terms of
his Stipulation. See Section 458.331(2), Florida Statutes.

8. It is expressly understood that this Stipulation is subject to the approval of
the Board and the Department. In this regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the
foregoing paragraphs of the Stipulated Facts, Stipulated Conclusions of Law and
Stipulated Disposition) shall have no force and effect unless a Final Order is entered
incorporating the terms of this Stipulation, by the Board.

9. ‘ Should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement made in furtherance of this
Stipulation by the Respondent may be used as direct evidence against the Respondent
in any proceeding. However, such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeach-
ment only.

10. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this joint Stipulation
and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will in no way preclude additional
proceedings by the Board and/or the Department against the Respondent for acts or
admissions not specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit
"A" herein.

11. Upon the Board‘s adoption of this Stipulation, Respondent expressly waives
all further procedural steps, and expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or
to otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the joint Stipulation of Facts, Conclusions

4

OGCJ;}

of Law and imposition of discipline, and the Final Order of the Board incorporating said
Stipulation.

12. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation, the parties hereby agree that
each party will bear his own attorney's fees and costs resulting from prosecution and/or
defense of this proceeding. Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's fees or
costs from the Department in connection with this disciplinary proceeding.

13. This Stipulation is executed by the Respondent for the purpose of avoiding
further administrative action with respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent
authorizes the Board to review and examine all investigative ﬁle materials concerning
Respondent, as well as any factual statements provided by Respondent or Respondent‘s
counsel, prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the Stipulation. Furthermore,
should this joint Stipulation not be accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presen—
tation to and consideration of this Stinulation and other documents and matters by the
Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or any of its members from

further participation, consideration or resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED this (0’4 day of gag , 1991.

THEODORE H. BODNER, M.D.

  

Sworn to and subscribed
bef me this jgf’day
,1991.

NOTARY P'UBLIE;3

My Com ssion Expires:

3/2/ n

| -l' ,
C LQL/

LAG/ avs

APPROVEDthisaz day of 74“"?‘L ,1991.

George Stuart
Secretary

   
  

  

Larry G. McPhcrs .
Acting Chief Attorney
Medical Section

Qduq ;

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
CASE NO. 9004596
v.

THEODORE H. BODNER, M.D.,

Respondent.

/
W

COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against Theodore H. Bodner, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes, Chapter 455, Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been
issued license number ME 0026004. Respondent's last known
address is 1190 The Strand, Teaneck, New Jersey 07666—2018.

3. Pursuant to Section 455.213(5), Florida Statutes, as a
condition of renewal of a license, the Board of Medical Examiners
(Board of Medicine) shall require licensees which it regulates to
periodically demonstrate their professional competency by

completing at least forty (40) hours of continuing education

' > "E “~ 1
00940;

every two (2) years, of which at least five (5) hours shall
concern risk management. Criteria for, and content of,
continuing education courses shall be approved by the Board.

4. Pursuant to Rule 21M-28.002, Florida Administrative
Code, every physician licensed pursuant to Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, shall be required to complete forty (40) hours of
continuing medical education approved by the Board in the twenty—
four (24) months preceding each biennial renewal period as
established by the Department. At least five (5) of such
continuing medical education hours required for renewal shall
concern risk management.

5. Pursuant to Rule 21M-28.002(2)(a), Florida
Administrative Code, risk management means the identification,
investigation, analysis, and evaluation of risks and the
selection of the most advantageous method of correcting,
reducing, or eliminating, identifiable risks.

6. Pursuant to Rule 21Mo28.002(3), Florida Administrative
Code, part of the application for renewal shall include a form on
which the licensee shall state that he has completed the required
continuing education. Additionally, the licensee must retain
such receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other papers, such as
physician recognition awards issued by the American Medical
Association, as may be necessary to document completion of the
centinuing medical education listed on the renewal form for a
period of not less than four years from the date the course was

taken. The Board will randomly audit such numbers of licensees

