n-mment cf Protegsmnal Regulation

;r.‘ _
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATIONALkHLYCLCRK
BOARD OF MEDICINE

(/ /::)
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL <::::::>K< éL/LégoL,~.._,

 

REGULATION, CLERK
Petitioner, DANE /2‘/O— f
v. DPR CASE NUMBER: 90—10086

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0034432
STEVEN H. MOSS, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.S7(3), Florida Statutes, on December 6, 1991, in
Miami, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement (attached
hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the above-
styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent Agreement, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADSUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and Conditions of the

Consent Agreement.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of
the Department.

(r
DONE AND ORDERED this (0 day iwlrx/ , 1991.

 

BOARD OF MEDICINE

I
M
ZACHARI P. Z CHARIAH, M.D.

CHAIRMAN

 

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Steven H. Moss, M.D.,
13910 Fivay Road, Suite 1, Hudson, Florida 34667 and Cass D.
Vickers, Esquire, 6200 Courtney Campbell Causeway, Suite 1040,
Tampa, Florida 33607 and by interoffice delivery to Larry G.
McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney, Department of Professional
Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe Street,

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, at or before 5:00 P.M., this

{C27QA day of égégfazféfz , 1991.

-?

    

 

 

f3} ﬁg; \ g;:
F‘o'éemy J; EAERCLOTH
ExecutiveLDirector

an administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this ﬂaw of W& , 1991.

George Stuart
Secretary

(94%

Stephanie Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

. F I ,
COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT. Deﬂﬂrtmem 01:31? E D

. en' - .
Larry McPherson, Jr. AGENCYCLEEéRQWMUO”
Senior Attorney _
. K
Department of ProfeSSLODal >
Regulation C/ (LA 9
1940 North Monroe Street vv$qﬂ__,_,,

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750 CMRK ‘__“‘

CJR/bg/tc DATE @ﬁ:

PCP: February 22, 1991
Vitale, Ashkar and Skinner

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION, DOAH Case No. 91—2344

DPR Case No. 90—10086
Petitioner,

STEVEN HARDING MOSS, M.D.,

Respondent.

)
)
)
)
)
VS. )
)
)
)
)
)
)

 

CONSENT AGREEMENT
STEVEN HARDING MOSS, M.D., referred to as the "Respondent”,
and the Department of Professional Regulation, referred to as
"Department", stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and to
the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as
"Board", incorporating the stipulated Facts and stipulated
Disposition in this matter.
§ILBH£AI§Q_EAQE§
1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed
physician in the State of Florida having been issued the license
number MEOO34432.
2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with

Violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules enacted

pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative
Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of

fact contained in the Administrative Complaint.
STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. Respondent admits that, in his Capacity as a licensed
physician, he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458,
Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department and the
Board.

2. Respondent neither admits nor denies that the facts set
forth in the Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the
Administrative Complaint.

STIPULATED DISPOSITION

l. FUTURE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the future

violate Chapters 455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, and the rules

promulgated pursuant thereto.

2. COSTS. The Board shall impose administrative costs in

 

the amount of $1,000.00 against the Respondent. The costs shall be
paid by the Respondent to the Executive Director of the Board
within 30 days of its imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. Respondent shall attend 20 hours of Category I Continuing
Medical Education courses, within one year of the Final Order, in
the area of risk management. Respondent shall submit a written

2

plan to the Chairman of the Board or his designee for course
approval prior to the completion of said courses. In addition,
Respondent shall submit documentation of completion of these
courses to the Executive Director of the Board within one year of
the Final Order of the Board. These hours shall be in addition to
those hours required for renewal of licensure. Unless otherwise

approved by the Board or its designee, said course shall consist of

a formal live lecture format.

4. Respondent shall write a paper on the following topics,
in a format suitable for publication: the importance of obtaining
patient consents; the importance of patient records reflecting
information given to a patient prior to surgery; how to avoid
"wrong leg" surgeries. Said paper shall be submitted to the
Executive Director of the Board within one year cf the Final Order
of the Board.

5. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject
to the approval of the Board and the Department. In this regard
the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs) shall
have no force and effect unless a Final Order is entered
incorporating the terms of this Agreement, by the Board.

6. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting
of the Board where this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in

conjunction with the consideration of this Agreement by the Board,

shall respond to questions under oath from the Board, Board Staff
Or Department Staff.

7. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by the Respondent may be used as
direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding; however,
such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment
purposes.

8. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this
joint Agreement and sgbsequent Final Order incorporating sahe will
in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board and/or the
Department against the Respondent for acts cr omissions not
specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as
Exhibit "A" herein.

9. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreement, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps, and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Agreement.

10. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will bear his own attorney’s fees and
costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter.

Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's fees or costs

from the Department in connection with this matter.

11. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the
Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by
the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Beard or
any of its members from further participation, consideration or
resolution of these proceedings.

Signed this 315E day of OCTOBER , 1991.
____._ ___ir.:_._i___i_

 

STE N

 

Sworn to and subscribed
before me this 315: day of
OCTOBER , 1991.

ﬁzz W

NOTARY PU LIC

 

NOTARY PLHLIC
MY com

BCHDED

/ L
APPROVED this aim day of gem MVM’AC/ ___, 1991.

Georg St rt
Secr’tar

N
LAR . MCPHERSON. J .

Chi f Medical Attorney
Medical Section

  

My commission expires:

 

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,
PETITIONER,
vs. CASE No. 90—010086
STEVEN HARDING MOSS, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT —

\

 

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
STEVEN HARDING MOSS, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent,"
and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with
regulating the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30,
Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458,
Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been
issued license number ME 0034432. Respondent’s last known address
is 13910 Fivay Road, #1, Port Richey, Florida, 34667—7130.

3. From on or about November 21, 1989, to on or about
April 24, 1990, Respondent treated Patient #1 for bunions on both

feet.'

4. On or about December 1, 1989, Respondent performed
bunionectomies on Patient #1’5 feet, and placed k—pins and wires
in the great toe of Patient #1'5 right foot.

5. On or about April 24, 1990, Patient #1 presented
to Respondent after complaining of a painful great left toe.
Respondent viewed an x—ray dated on or about February 7, 1990, that
showed retained pins in Patient #1'5 great left toe.

6. On or about April 24, 1990, Respondent Scheduled
Patient #1 for surgery of the great left toe. Patient #1 signed

the appropriate consent form indicating pin removal, great toe,
left foot.

7. Respondent proceeded with the surgery, explored
Patient #1’5 great 1e£t toe, but failed to find any pins or wires.

8. After closing Patient #1’5 great left toe,
Respondent performed the surgical procedure on the great right toe,
discovering and removing the pins and wires.

9. Respondent failed to obtain Patient #1’5 consent
prior to performing the Surgical procedure on Patient #1'5 great
right toe.

COUNT QEE
10. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs
one (1) through nine (9), as if fully set forth herein this Count
One.
11. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that
level, of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a

reasonably by a reasonably prudent similar’ physician as being

acceptable under similar conditions and circumstances, in that
Respondent operated on both great toes of Patient #1 after
receiving consent only to operate on the great left toe.

12. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, by being guilty of gross or
repeated malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that
level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a
reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under
similar conditions and circumstances.

COUNT TWO

13. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs
one (1) through nine (9), and eleven (11), as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

14. Respondent performed professional services which
were not duly authorized by Patient #1, in that Respondent operated
on Patient #1’s great right toe without first receiving consent
from Patient #1 to perform the procedure.

15. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.33l(1)(p), Florida Statutes, by performing professional
services which have not been duly authorized by the patient or
client, or his legal representative, except as provided in s.
743.064, 5. 768.13, or s. 766.103.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the
Board of Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the
following penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s

license, restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of

