FILED

Depwﬂnmnl0fFWoﬁ:s§onaEP€gubﬁoﬂ

\1
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGUL£$ D VLLERK

BOARD OF MEDICINE
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL ,,
REGULATION, m” .:

 

Petitioner , rm 1L' 7

V. DPR CASE NUMBER: 90—06942
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0015808
OWEN C. DILLON, M.D.,

Respondent.
/

.

 

FINAL ORDER

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on September 21, 1991, in
Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, for consideration of a Stipulation
gattached hereto as E;hibit A) entered into between the parties in
the above—styled case. Upon consideration of the Stipulation, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulation as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the

Stipulation.

This Final order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Department.

"I> I ﬂ ”
DONE AND ORDERED this jg? day .‘vaﬂryﬂ by w , 1991.

 

BOARD OF MEDICINE

[émm’é’ ' ‘:
ZACHARIA P. ZACHARIAH, M.D.

CHAIRMAN

QERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Owen C. Dillon, M.D.i

3636 Georgia Avenue, N.W., #102, Washington, D.C. 20010-1646,QH4

Robert S. Turk, Esquire, Suite 3400, 1 Biscayne Tower, 2 South
Biscayne Boulevard, Miami, Florida 33131-1897 and by interoffice
delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney,
Department of Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North

Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792, at or before 5:00

P.M., this QK’M‘Q day of M , 1991.

RO Y J. RCLO'FIT—“w‘”

Executive Director

   

'7

r. Pursuaht to Rule 21M—28.002(6), Elorida Administrative
Code, the following courses have been approved by the Board oi
Medicine for continuing education:

a. Organized courses approved for American Medical
Accreditation Category I Continuing Medical Education credits or
accepted for the American Medical Association physician

recognition award.

b. Any postgraduate training program accredited by the
Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education.

c. The following specialty training: American College of
Emergency Physicians, Category I; Amercian Academy of Family
Physicians prescribed credit; and American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists cognates.

8. On or about Novermber 4, 1967, Respondent signed the
following statement which was thereafter submitted as part of the
request to renew his license to practice medicine:

I hereby certify that during the period January 1,
1986, through December 31, 1987( 1 have obtained no fewer
than forty (40) hours of continuing medical education
courses which meets the requirement of Chapter 455.213(S),
Florida Statutes, and Rule 21M—28.002(6) Florida
Administrative Code. I further certify that at least five
(5) of the forty (40) hours concern risk management
pursuant to Rule 21M—28.002(2) Florida Administrative
Code. I understand that I must maintain such receipts,
vouchers, certificates or other papers to document
completion for the CME requirememts for a periad of net
less than four (4) years from the date the Course was
taken.

I affirm that these statements are true and
correct and recognize that providing false information may
result in a fine, suspension or revqcation of my license
as provided in Florida Statutes 455.2275, 775.082, or
775.084.

9. The ggg;ementioned statement was required as part of
the renewal process for the licensing periad from January 1,
1986, through December 31, 1987. Without this statement,
Respondent could not have renewed his license to practice
medicine in Florida

10. Respondent successfully renewed his license to
practice medicine in Florida. That renewal was based, in part,
on the aforementioned statement regarding completion 0:
Continuing Medical Education.

11. Respondent was selected randomly for audit purposes to
vertify his continuing medical education for the period covered
in his statement (January 1, 1986 through December 31, 1987§.

The Respondent failed to provide documentation for 35 hours of
Category 1 Continuous Medical Education.

12. Respondent failed to maintain such receipts, vouchers,
certificates, or other papers to document completion of the CME
requirements for the relevant time period, and thereby failed to
submit the required documentation for the Board's random audit.

CQHEIiQME

13. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
{1) through eleven (12) as if fully set forth herein this Count
One.

14. Respondent violated a rule of the Board, in that
Respondent failed to submit documentation verifying risk
management credit of his continuing medical education, including
for the period from January 1, 1986, through December 31, 1987,

in response to the Board's random audit, and thereby failed to

comply with RLEE 21M—28.002, Florida Administrative Code.

.7_‘*, ABA

15. Based on the preceding allegatiohs, Respondent
violated Section 458.331(1)(x), Florida Statutes, by violating
any provisions of this Chapter, a rule of the board or
department, or a lawful order of the board or department
previously entered in a disciplinary hearing or failing to comply
with a lawfully issued subpoena of the department.

CQHHI_IEQ

16. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through twelve (12) and fourteen (14) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

37: Respondent renewed his license by fraudulent
misrepreeentation, in that Respondent falsely certified that he
had completed the continuing medical education requirements for
the period from January 1, 1986, through December 31, 1987:

18. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Lection 458.331(1)(a), Florida Statutes, attempting to
obtain, obtaining or renewing a license to practice medicine by
bribery, by fraudulent misrepresentations, or through an error of
the department or the board.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board
of Medicine enter an ORDER imposing one or more of the following
penalties: Fevocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an

administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other {elief that the Rnard

deems apprapriate.

Lil

   

SIGNED this giﬁmay of W, 1990.

Larry Gonzalez
Secretary

W

Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

 

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT: F I L E D
Larry G. McPherson, Jr. DepartmentomefegﬁiOﬂg‘ Regu‘aﬁm
Senior Attorney AGENGYCLERK

FL. Bar No.0788643

Department of Professional Regulation .

1940 North Monroe Street 25’ (EYVQ""’
Tallahassee, FL 32399—0750

(9 ) 488-0062 miRK _

 

L&/BD/pb
DATE W/ V

pap 11/6/90
Burt, Ikualine, (knnpbell

FLORIDA BOARD OF MEDICINE
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

lawton Chile:
Cavn-nnr

George Stuart
Seculary

 

 

 

May 13, 1993

FLORIDA BOARD OF MEDICINE

1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0770 Owen C

Telephone (904) 4884595

W
James N. Bun. M.D.
Jacksonville. Florida

Member:
Fuad 5. Ashkar, M.D.

Miami, Florida

Pamela A. M. Campbell. 1.0
5L Petersburg, Florida

Richard James Cavallam, M.D.
Naples, Florida

Edward A, Dauer, M.D.
Fan Lauderdale, Florida

Emilio Echevania. M.D.
Tampa, Florida

Mnnjn ], Fenwick. M.D.
Coral Spring. Florida

Mary Kamryn Ganen. MD.
Orlando. Florida

John w. Olmfelty, M.D.
Lakeland, Florida

Manning H1 Hanline, 11., M.D.
Pensamla, Florida

Richard McEwen
Tallahassee, Horida

Louis C. Murray, MD,
Orlando, Florida

Gilbert M. Rodriguez
Tampa. Honda

Margaret S, Skinner; MD.
Wen Palm Beach, F|orida

Gary E. Winchester. MD.
Tallahassee. Florida

E , 13'
Dorothy J. Faircloth

Dillon, M.D.
3636 Georgia Avenue NW
Suite 102

Washington, D.C. 20010-1699

Dear Dr. Dillon:

This will serve to acknowledge receipt of documentation
of completion of CME.

Pursuant to the Final Order of the Board dated September
25, 1991 (copy enclosed), you were required to pay an
administrative fine in the amount of $1500 within 30
days, document compliance with the 1986-1987 and the
1988-1989 licensing bienniums and submit documentation of
completion of 5 hours Category I CME in the area of risk
management.

This will serve to acknowledge fulfillment of the
requirements as set forth in the Final Order.
Furthermore, the suspension imposed against your license
March 10, 1993 has been lifted.

‘

If you have any questions, please feel free to contact
this office at (904) 488—0595.

Sincerely, \
Crys 1 A. Griffin

Prof ssional Regulation Specialist II

[cg

Enclosure

DIVISION OF MEDICAL QUALITY ASSURANCE
Noxn-Iwoon CENTRE - 1940 NORTH MONROE STREET - TALLAHASSEE. FLORIDA 32399-0770

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
v.
DPR CASE NO.: 906942
OWEN C. DILLON, M.D.,

Respondent.

W

OWEN C. DILLON, M.D., the Respondant, and the Department of
Professional Fegulation, referred to as Department, stipulate and agree to the foliowing
joint Stipulation and to the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred
to as Board, incorporating this Stipulation and the Agreement in this matter.

STIPULA’I‘ED FACTS

At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed physician in the
State of Florida having been issued license number ME 0015808.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint ﬂied by the
Department and properly served upon Respondent with violations of Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, and the rules enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the
Administrative Complaint is attached hereto and incorporated by reference as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the alngations of fact contained in

the Administrative Complaint attached hereto as Exhibit A.

STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

1

1. Respondent, in his capacity as a licensed physician, admits that in such
capacity he is subject to the provisions of Chapter 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the
jurisdiction of the Department and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the allegations relating to Count One of the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute a violation of Chapter
458.331(1)(x), Florida Statutes, as alleged.

3. The Department agrees to voluntarily dismiss Count Two of the
Administrative Cempiaint, upon the Board's acceptance of this Stipulation.

STIPULA’IED DISPOSITION

1. Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters 455, 458, and 893,
Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated pursuant thereto.

2. The Beard shall impose an administrative fine in the amount of $1,500.00
against the Respondent. The fine shall be paid by the Respondent to the Executive
Director of the Board within thirty days of the imposition by Final Order Of the Board.

3. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand from the Board of Medicine.

4. Within six months of the filing of the Final Order incorporating the terms
of this Stipulation, Respondent shall submit documentation to demonstrate his compliance
with all of the continuing education requirements for the 1986 - 1987 and 1988 — 1989
licensing biennium, Documentation that the Respondent has "made up” the continuing
education requirements for the relevant periods shall satisfy this requirement. Such
documentation shall consist of certified copies of the recemts, vouchers, certificates, or
other papers, such as the physician's recognition awards issued by the American Medical
Association, as may be necessary to document completion of the continuing education.

2

1n the event that Respondent fails to timely document rompliance with all of the
continuing education requirements for the relevant time periods Respondent‘s license to
practice medicine shall be suspended until such time as documentation of compliance is
received by the Board.

5. Within six months of the Filing of the Final Order incorporating the terms
of this Stipulation, Respondent shall attend five (5) hours of Category I Continuing
Medical Education courses in the area of risk management. Respondent shall submit a
written plan to the Chairman of the Probationer's Committee for approval prior to the
completion of said continuing education hours. The Board confers authority on the
chairman of the Probationer‘s Committee to approve or disapprove said continuing
education courses. In additinn, Respondent shall submit documentation (in the form of
certified copies of receipts, vouchers, cettificates, or other papers, such as the physician's
recognition awards issued by the American Medical Association, as may be necessary to
document cempletion 0f the continuing education) of completion of these continuing
medical education courses within six months of the entry of the Final Order in this
matter. These hours shall be in addition to those hours required for renewal of
Iicensure. Unless otherwise approved by the Board or the chairman of the Prebationer’s
Committee, said continuing education courses shall consist of a formal live lecture format.
In the event that Respondent fails to timely document completion of the risk
management courses Respondent‘s license to practice medicine shall be suspended until
such time as documentation of compliance is received by the Board‘

6. Prior to renewing his. license at the end of the 1990‘1991 biennium,
Respondent shall be required to document compliance with the continuing education
requirements for that period. Such documentation shall consist of certified copies of the

..
J

receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other papers, such as the physician's recognition awards
issued by the American medical Association, as may be necessary to document
completion of the continuing education.

7. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply with the terms of the
Final Order issued based on this Stipulation. Such costs include, but are not limited to
the cost of preparation of investigative reports detailing compliance with the terms of
his Stipulation. See Section 458.331(2), Florida Statutes;

S. It is expressly understood that this Stipulation is subject to the approval of
the Board and the Department. In this regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the
foregoing paragraphs of the Stipulated Facts, Stipulated Conclusions of law and
Stipulated Disposition) shall have no force and effect unless a
Final Order is entered incorporating the terms of this Stipulation, by the Board.

9. Should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement made in furtherance of this
Stipulation by the Respondent may be used as direct evidence against the Respondent
in any proceeding, However, such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeach—
ment purposes.

10. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this joint Stipulation
and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will in no way preclude additional
proceedings by the Board and/or the Department against the Respondent for acts or
admissions not specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit
"A" herein.

1L Upon the Board‘s adoption of this Stipulation,'Respondent expressly waives
all further procedural steps, and expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or

to otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the joint Stipulation 0f Facts, Conclusions

4

 

of law and imposition of discipline, and the Final Order of the Board incorporating said
Stipulation.

12. Upon the Board‘s adoption of this Stipulation, the parties hereby agree that
each party will bear iris own attorney‘s fees and costs resulting from prosecution and/Gr
defense of this proceeding. Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's fees or
costs from the Department in connection with this disciplinary procecding.

13. This Stipulation is executed by the Respondent for the purpose of avoiding
further administrative action with respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent
authorizes the Board to review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent, as well as any factual $tatements provided by Respondent or Respondent's
counsel, prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the Stipulation. Furthermare,
should this joint Stipulation not be accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presen-
ation t0 and consideration of this Stipulation and other documents and matters by the
Board shall not unfairly 0r illegally prejudice the Board or any of its members from

further participation, consideration or resolution of these proceedings.

 

SIGNED this $14»? day of ?{L-m . 1991.

W
OWEé C. DILLON, MET.

Sworn to and Subscribed
before me this'JIJr day

of :T‘tt/ut -2 1991.

ﬂutdm 17K. 795a m, ‘
NOTATY'PTBLIC‘“

L;

My Commission Expires:

(9a. 6!. 1%“

Ln

 

APPROVED this <ﬂ/ day of ﬂﬂl/mf 1991.

George Stuart
Secretary

  
 
 

 

; rry . McPherson 7
Acting Chief Medical Attorney
Medical Section

LAG/avs

-- Jig;

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,
Petitioner,
DPR CASE NO.: 906942
VS.

OWEN C. DILLON, M.D.

Respondent.

-_ /
W

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner", and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine,
against Owen C. Dillon M.D., hereinafter referred to as
“Respondent”, and alleges:

1. Petithoner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes, Chapter 455, Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respundent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been
issued license number ME 0015808. Respondent‘s last known
address is 3636 Gerogia Avenue, N.w. #102, Washington. D,C.
20010—1646.

3‘ Pursuant to Section 455.213(5), Florida Statutee, as a
condition Of renewal of a license, the Boafd of Medical Examiners
(Board of Medicine) shall require licensees which it regulates to

periodically demonstrate their professional competency by

completing at least 40 hours of continuing education every two

   

(2) years, of which at least five (5) hours shall concern risk
management. Criteria for, and content of, continuing education
courses shall be approved by the Board.

4. Pursuant to Rule 21M-28.002, Florida Administrative
Code, every physician licensed pursuant to Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, shall be required to complete 40 hours of continuing
medical education approved by the Board in the twenty—fou: (24)
memths preceding each biennial renewal period as established by
the Department. At least five (5) of such continuing medical
education hours required for renewal shall concern risk
management.

5. Pursuant to Section 21M~28.002(2)(a), Florida
Administrative Code, risk management means the identification,
investigation, analysis, and evalution of risks and the selection
of the most advantageous method of correcting, reducing or
eliminating, identifiable risks.

6. Pursuant to Section 21M—28.002(3), Florida
Administrative Code, part of the application for renewal shall
include a form on which the licensee shall state that he has
completed the required continuing education. Additionally, the
licensee must retain such receipts, vouchers, certificates or
other papers, such as physician recognition awards issued by the
AMA, as may be necessary to document completion of the continuing
medical education listed on the renewal form for a period of not
less than four years from the date the cougse was taken. The
Beard will randomly audit such numbers of licensees a5 is
necessary t0 assure that the continuing education requirements

are met.

[3

