FILED

Desanmem of Business and Professional Regulation

AGENCY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

‘. BOARD OF MEDICINE , —
‘ ‘ cu“ SMOM X- Hadrian,
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND

PROFESSIONAL REGULATION, DATEW

Petitioner,

V. DBPR CASE NUMBERS: 90-10089
89-12630
92-037 67

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0009346
DAN C. ROEHM, SR., M.D.,

Respondent.

' /
ELHAL_QBQ§B

THIS CAUSE came before the Board of Medicine {Ecard) in Miami,
Florida, on October 2, 1993, for the purpose of considering
Respondent’s offer to voluntarily relinquish his license to
practice medicine in the State of Florida. (Attached hereto as
Exhibit A.) Said written offer of relinquishment specifically
provides: "Respondent agrees never again to apply for licensure as
a physician in the State of Florida."

Upon consideration of the written oﬁfer of voluntary
relinquishment, the Charges, and the other documents of record, and
being otherwise fully advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED,

That Respondent’s Voluntary Relinquishment of his license to

practice medicine in the State of Florida is hereby ACCEPTED.

 

DONE AND ORDERED this Z day of @W , 1993.

‘ .BOARD OF MEDICINE

CERTIFIC TE OF SERVIC

 

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
Final Order has been provided by certified mail to Dan C. Roehm,
Sr., M.D., 3450 Park Central Boulevard North, Pompano Beach,
Florida 33064, Karen Coolman Amlong, 101 Northeast 3rd Avenue, Ft.
Lauderdale, Florida 33301 and by interoffice delivery to Larry G.
McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney, Department of Business and
Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe

Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, at or before 5:00 P.M.,

this day of ggcJT , 1993.

Aé:%225E?~’L 11/1261/7724w' _
HARM HARRIS, Ph.D.
Executive Director

CO V

28. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs‘one (1)
through fifteen (15), seventeen (17), twenty (20), qu twenty-thrae
(23), twenty—six (26) as if fully set forth herein this Count Five.

29. Respondent violated a provision of Chapter 458 in that he
ordered unnecessary diagnostic tests on Patient I1, contrary to
Section 766.111(1), Florida Statutes, by ordering exce$sive and
unnecesgarily extensive mineral analysis, echocardiography, and
carotid and peripheral arterial and venous studies.

30. Based on the_preceding allegations, Respondent tiolated
Section 458.33l(l)(x), Florida Statutes, by violating any provision
of this chapter, a rule of the board or department, or a lawful
order of the board or department prrviously entered in a
disciplinary hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully isaued
subpoena of the department.

COUNT SIX

31. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through fifteen (15), seventeen (l7), twenty (20), tucnty—three
(23), twenty—six (26), and twenty—nine (29) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Six.

32. Respondent exercised influence on Patient I1 in such a
manner as to exploit Patient #1 for financial gain in that
Respondent directed Patient [1 to undergo a series of expensive and

unnecessary series of tests without a clear indication of their

necessity for his own financial gain. Respondent subsequently did

not form a conclusive diagnosis of Patient #l’s condition on the

7 n(\ﬂ(\\ 3

basis of these tests. Respondent nonetheless administered
chelation therapy to treat Patient I1, but chelation therapy is, in
fact, not medicaliy indicated in the treatment of TIA or other
cardiovascular difficulties;

33. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(n), Florida Statutes, by exercising influence on
the patient or client in such a manner as to exploit the patient or
client for financial gain of the licensee or of a third party,
which shall include, but not be limited to, the promoting or
selling of services, goods, appliances, or drugs. I

COUNT 81-1151;

34. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through fifteen (15), seventeen (17), twenty (20}, tuenty-three
(23), twenty—six (26), twenty—nine (29), and thirty-tuo (32) as if
fully set forth herein this Count Seven.

35. Respondent disseminated false, deceptive, and misleading
advertising by giving Patient #1 in the course of his medical
practice a brochure that makes Claims regarding the benefits of
chelation therapy which have no basis in scientific medical
evidence. Respondent provided Patient Ix with a misleading
brochure that implied that chelation therapy is an FDA—approved
treatment when chelation therapy is, in fact, not recognized by the
FDA for use in the treatment of TIA.

36. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated

Section 458.33l(l)(d), Florida Statutes, false, deceptive, or

misleading advertising.

nnrxnll.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation OE suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respendent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this (é day of mm . 1992,

George Stuart Secretary

’ 2

Ch} f Medical Attorney

  

 

COUNS EL FOR DEPARTM ENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr. F l L E. D

Chief Medical Attorney Dtnﬂmwn‘o,thsymulﬁﬁmuﬁV
Department of Professional Regulation AﬁENCVCLUW

1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750

(’ .
Florida Bar #78864] < /’Owupom/

RPC/rb \
PCP: October 29, 1992 CLLA

Murray, Slade, and Rodriguez __;::;§:l£figé*
DAYS ‘ "—“'"

 

0000 \ S

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

PETITIONER,

vs. CASE NO. 9203767

DAN C. ROEHM, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

 

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Profcssional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Beaxd 0{ HQdiCiPQ against

DAN C. ROEHM, M.D., hereinafter r&icrruj to as ”Respgndcnt," and

alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Svctisn 20.30, Florida
tatutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes: and Chapter 458, Florida

Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been a: all timns material hnreto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0009346. Respondent’s last known address is 3450

Park Central Boulevard, North, Pompano Beach, Florida 33064—2209.

3. On or about February 25 and 26, 1992, Respondent treated

Patient #1, a sixty~nine year old male, for myocardial infarction.

4. On or about February 25, 1992, Patient #1 presented to

Subject’s office complaining of chest pain.

, nnnniR

5. Despite the potential life-threatening nature of such a

complaint from a sixty—nine (69) year—old man, Respondent failed to
obtain Patient I1“; recent and past cardiovascular—history.

6. Respondent condutted an electrocardiogram (EKG), which
revealed subendocardial myocardial infarction.

7. Respondent then administered intravenous (IV)
ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), prescribed Cardizem 60 mg.,
#100 and Nitroglycerin .01 gr., 5100, and sent Patient I1 home.

8. EDTA, also known as disodium edate, are salts which are
sometimes used in chelation therapy, an intravenous treatment in
which a solution is injected into the bloocstream for the purpose
of mobilizing abnormal calhium to be either excreted or
recirculated back in bones.

9. On or about February 26, 1992, Patient #1 returned to
Respondent’s office complaining of chest pain which kept him awake
the entire previous night and failed to go away after taking
Cardizem and nitroglycerin.

10. Respondent conducted another EKG, which revealed
deepening of ST depression compatible‘ with subendocardial
infarction.

11. At this time, Patient #1 was suffering from a potentially
life—threatening form of ischemic heart disease and should have
been referred to a hospital for intensive cardiac care and

aggressive therapy.

12. Notwithstanding the above, Responded again Chose to

administer IV EDTA therapy to Patient #1.

_ nﬂﬂﬂl?

13. Respondent’s medical records of the evaluation up to this
point fail to reflect that Rennnndent rnFanized Patient [1’s
condition as potentfally life—threatening and fail to reveal that
Respondent even considered feferrinq Patient I1 to the hospital for
intensive cardiac care and aggressive therapy.

14. While Patient #1 was undergoing the EDTA therapy, he
became cold and clammy, his blood glucose test revealed a level of
35, and his blood pressure maintained shock levels.

15. Respondent then had Patient #1 taken to the hospital by

ambulance. Shortly after arrival, Patient #1 suffered a

cardiopulmonary arrest and expired.

l6. Respondent inappropriately failed to obtain a complete
cardiovascular history of Patient #1 upon his initial consultation.

17. On or about February 25 and 26, 1992, Respondent
inappropriately administered EDTA to Patient :1 for treatment of
his myocardial infarction.

18. Respondent failed to recognize that Patient #1 was
suffering from a potentially life—threatening form of ischemic
heart disease.

19. Respondent inappropriately failed to send Patient #1 to
the hospital, when he knew, or had reason to know, that Patient fl
needee intensive cardiac care and aggressive therapy.

20. Respondent’s medical records of his initial consultation

with Patient #1 fail to reveal a complete aSsessment of Patient

#l’s cardiovascular history,

3 nnnn\8

21. Respondent’s medical records of Patient I1 prior to
Patient Il’s departure to the hospital fail to address the

seriousness of Patient [1’s condition and justiﬁy Respondent's

..

choice of treatment.

COUNT ONE

22. Petitioner realleqes and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty-one (21) as if fully set forth herein this Count
One.

2]. Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and

circumstances in that he inappropriately Used EDTA to treat Patient

?l’s myocardial infarction and failed to do Lhn following in his
treatment of Patient #1: Obtain a cemplwtﬁ cardiovascular hiztory
dpon initial evaluation; address the seriousness of Patient (1’5

condition immediately after obtaining the results of his second
EKG; and send Patient #1 to the hospital when he knew, or had
reason to know, that Patient :1 needed intensive cardiac care and
aggressive therapy.

24. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.33l(1)(t), Florida Statutes, in that he is guilty of
gross or repeated malpractice or the failure to practice medicine
with that level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized
by a reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under

similar conditions and circumstance“.

4 0000\9

 

 

COUNT TWO

25. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty-one_(21) and tuenty—three (23) as if—fully set forth
herein this Count Two. I

26. Respondent is guilty of failing to keep medical records
justifying thL course of treatment of the patient, including, but
not limited to, patient histories; examination results; test
results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or administnrcd;
and reports of consultations and hospitalization: in that
Respondent’s medical Tecords fail to refluct the [allnwinqz
Patient #1’5 past and present cardiovascular history; perr ta
Patient #l’s departure to the hospital, the seriousnerg n! PJtiont
?l’s Condition; and justification oi Raspandont's rkm*~n of

treatment.

27. Based on the preceding qllquLioan, chpondwnz viylzttl
Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, in that he i: qjilty of
failing to keep written medical roccrdn juLtifying the naprﬁc of

treatment of the patient, including, but not limited to, thiant
histories; examination results; test results; records rm' drugs
prescribed, dispensed, or administered; and rnpcrts of
consultations and hospitalizations.
COUNT THREE
28. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraph: one (1)
through twenty—one (21), twenty—three (23), and twenty—six (26) as

if fully set forth herein this Count Three.

% HHQOZQ

s,m-

{-1- 1‘“
"TH.

 

I?
9..

' e
. LT:

 

29. Respondent is guilty of prescribing, dispensing, mixing.
or otherwise preparing a legend drug, including any controlled
substance, other thhn 1n the course of the physicianjs professional
practice in that on or ahout February 25 and 26, 1992, Respondent

inappropriately administered EDTA to Patient :1 for treatment of

his myocardial infarction.

30. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(q), Florida Statutes, in that he is guilty of
prescribing, dispensing, or otherwise preparing :1 legend drug,
including any controlled substance, other than in the courée of the
physician’s professional practice. For the purpose: of this
paragraph, it shall be legally presumed that prescribing,
dispensing, administering, mixing, or other ;ue preparing legend
drugs, including all controlled substances, inwpprcprigto y or in
excessive or inappropriate quantities is not LA the hhuL Jnterest
05 the patient and i: not in the CDUrSi' o! the phyhicidn’s
professional practice, without regard to his intent.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspensioh_01 the Respondent’s license,
restriction of the Respondent’f practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of thz

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

6 00002‘

SIGNED this A? day of , 1992.

f§2;ical Attorney
COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr. F. I L. E: [J

Chief Medical Attorney DﬂMﬂmmnomehgmwnlmmWWh"
Department of Professional Regulation - WY<JEHK

1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750
Florida Bar #788643

LAQP/dpb «

PCP: June 29, 1992

Murray, Basisht, and Rodriguez

 

   

 

000022

in_-

BTRTB OF FLORIDA
DBPARTHENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULETIONB
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESQ AND DOAH CASE I’s: 931463 & 925468
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION, ‘ - DBPR CASE I’s: 8912630/9203767

Investigative File [9010089
Petitionev,
vs.

'DAN c. ROEHM, SR., M.D.,
Ml
vomm‘mgy RELImem' or gazing

To avoid the necessity of further administrative proceedings
in these cases, the Respondent herein files this Voluntary Relin~
quishment of his license to practice as a physician in the State 0:
Florida, with the provision that Respondent agrees never again to
apply for licensure as a physician in the State of Florida.

when relinquishments are offered to the Board of Medicine to
avoid further administrative prosecution, this is considered to De
disciplinary action against your license to practice medicine in
the State of Florida. As such, any and all disciplinary actions
taken by the Board of Medicine are reported to the Federation of
State Medical Boards and the National Practitioner Data Bank.

Upon the Board’s adoption of this Relinquishment, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of the Relinquishment and the Final Order of
the Board incorporating said Relinquishment.

Upon the Board's adoption of this Relinquishment, the parties
hereby agree that each party will bear their own atterney’s fees

and costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter.

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSXQNAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDIClNE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

PETITIONER,

vs. CASE NO. WOOIOSK
ROBERT A. LIEBERMAN, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMINIﬂRATWF CQMﬂ.:\IN‘[
COMES NOW lhc Petilmnur. Dcpzu'lmcm u: Prni’csxl.v::.l| Ev: :.-::

 

hereinafter referred to as 'Pctitioncr,‘ and ﬁlm. this Admlmsamm-c f'umann: hct'u'u :32.
of Medicine against ROBERT A. LILBERELKN, M.D., hl‘TL‘H‘IJHC.’ rci'crrL-J u-

‘Respondcm,’ and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the slum .xgcnc-y chugud mm :gg.'..utmg {hc 92.11”: m:

medicine pursuAnt to Section 20.30, Honda Slululcx; Chapm 4.95. I Forum SMEUEDL .mdt ?..1picr
458, Florida Slatulcs.

3, Respondcnt is and has bccn at .1“ times malcm] hcrciu u huunwd phymmn
in the State of Florida, having been issued license number MY; 0023le Rnpondcm's kn:
known address is 609 Virginia Drive, Orlando, Florida, 32803-4344.

3. Patient #1 has been a patient of Respondent {or at Jun: six (6) yuan.

4. On or about September 26. 1989. Pancm M rcccwcd a lcnur from
Respondent indicating, that Respondent had turned over his medical practice :0 Dr. Gama.

5. On or about September 26, 1989, Patient #1 conmctcd Dr. Garcia's ofﬁcc

and was told that if she wanted her medical records she should contact Respondent's ofﬁce 3!;

they were in the process of packing the records and moving out of (he ofﬁccs.

6. On or about September 26, 1989, Patient #1 hand delivered (0 Respondent's

ofﬁce, a letter requesting her nledical records and was told that there was noproblcm and that

‘

they would be sent to her.

7. Patient #1 did not receive her medical records from Respondent and on or
about November 20, 1939, Patient #1 sent Respondent a second letter rcquesting hcr mama!
records from Respondent.

8. Patient #1 has not received her madical rtcords from Rcsp-ondcm.

9. Pursuant ‘0 Sccﬁon 455-341(1). Florida Sulutcs. any health care practlilrwr
who makes a physical or mental cxannnaaion of. or admmxsms Utauncm m, .111} pcnun mm.
upon request of such person or his legal reprcwnumc, furnish, m .1 umcly muumn a .1I'1Lnt
delays for legal review. copies of all rcpuns and uwrds r:lu1::1g 10 such cx.l_:r__:..: wr. at
treatment.

10. Respondent failed to pcrform a mru'nr) m Eugal ohllm u - .1:
Respondent failed ‘0 give Patient #1 hcr medical records |_.,'\1‘|'1. fL'Ll'LCSL mach} Lu‘u-J 1-1 . ,‘W
with Section 455.241“), Florida Smums.

11. Based on the foregoing, Rcsptmdcnl awhucd hcutu‘in h! .113“ l l‘gl, '.
to perform any smulory or legal obligation placcd upon .1 lmcnwd phyhlz'ldl'l‘

WHEREFORE. the Petitioner rcspccu'nll;v ruqunis 1h: Bum} “r M.-.!.._ :c
enter an Order imposing one or more of the following penalucs: revocation ur susjium -.u:- ‘2
the ['5 license, restriction of the Respondent's practice. imposition of an admimsxrm'nu ﬁne,
issuance of a reprimand, placement of me Respondcm on probation, and/or any olhcr ruticf “:241

deems appropriate.

 

SIGNED this (aﬂay of Z Mg , 1991.

George Stuart -
‘ Secre” '

  

 

 

Stephanic'Danicl
Chicf Mcdgcal Allornu)’

FILED

Dcpdfll'llerlt oi Proteah-um hauiatm
AGE‘.L'{ CLEFH

~/ 0 _ \E/ \ {1
* “"43 ,J/ ,1.:';,‘"I-~.v-../'
COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT: O ’ “

Larry McPhcrson. Jr.

. 1'. ' -‘ ‘w? i
Scnlor Attornqy ‘ . DATE _____’\____J~_._‘.—_——c-————
Depanmcn! or Pr02c>310nal
Regulation

1940 North Monroe Stmcx
Tallahasscc, Florida 3339970750

CI R/dv/(C
PCP: February 22, 1991
Vilalc, Ashknr and Skmncr

v.2

Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney’s fees or costs
from the Department in connection with this matter.

This Relinquishment is executed by Respondent tor the purpose
of avoiding further administrative action with respect to these
causes. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to review
and examine all investigative file materials concerning Respondent
prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the Relinquish—
ment. Furthermore, should this Relinquishment not be accepted by
the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and consideration of
this Relinquishment and-other documents and matters by the Board
shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board Or any of its
members from further participation, consideration or resolution of
this proceeding.

This Relinquishment will take effect sixty (00) days :rom the

date of the Final Order of the Board of Medicine.

DATED this Q§l€L day of Titlhi , 1993.
r , /”) '\ I
.\ Y , k,
/V\ r? i, \ (:45! M ”LEN ‘C\ 1— D1 L:
.hM, :n., M.D.

DAN C. R01” L

 

 

STATE OF FLORIDA }
COUNTY OF )

BEFORE ME, the undersigned authority, personally appeared Dan
C. Roehm, Sr., M.D., whose identity is known to me by

ggﬁmmgﬂ? SﬂQu‘El ddrc€kxtype of identification) and who, under oath,
cknow dges that Is signature appears above.

l w)
SWORN TO AND SUBSCRXBED before me this dfl day of

(5’ , 1993. \

    

t}/State ofiflfrida

 

ota

KMELUSa \j)
W Comm Exp. 6/20 97
"J vunuc (j Bondsd By Service lg;
‘ Ho CC?S£9¢6 /
Wwvmm Not 1,0

My Commission expires:

NOIAFV

 

STATE OF MRI DA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSfONAL '
REGULATION,

PETITIONER,

'vs. - CASE NO. 8912630

DAN C. ROEHM, SR., “.0.

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINI

 

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as “Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against

DAN C. ROEHM, SR., M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent,"

and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating

the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; ahd Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all timés material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number HE 0009346. Respondent’s last known address is 3450
Park Central Boulevard North, Pompano Beach, Florida 33064.

3. On or about July 19, 1989, Patient #1, a seventy—five

(75) year—old female with a history of arthritis, presented to

Respondent complaining of an episode of lightheadedneés. A“ the

000007

time Patient I1 presented, she had a condition known as transient
ischemic attack (TIA), a cardiovascular condition.

4. Respondent~_ta11ed to perform an adequate physical
examination because he failed to indicate in the medical records
whether he had ascertained the presence/abaence of bruits, sounds

7 or murmurs, in-Patient [1's neck. Respondent likewise failed to
document in the medical records whether he had ascertained the

presence/absence of any abnormal arterial pulsations in Patient

il‘s extremities.

5. Respondent, although recognizing the need to rule out the
possibility that Patient I1 had TIA, ultimately failed to make a
conclusive diagnosis regarding TIA.

6. Respondent failed to keep medical records justifying the
course of treatment by failing to adequately document a physical
examination or history of Patient #1.

'7. After Patient {1’s initial visit, Respondent ordered an
unnecessary number of studies and lab testing, contrary to Section
766.111(1), Florida Statutes, which were not reasonably calculated

to assist him in arriving at a diagnosis and tzeatment of Patient

il’s condition including the fol_owinq: an echocardiogram aS'well

as carotid and peripheral arterial and venous studies; and
extensive analysis of various minerals and other studies.

8. Respondent’s ordering of unnecessary and excessive
testing was exploitive of Patient #1 in that, Respondent ordered

such tests without making any conclusive diagnosis of Patient ﬁl’s

true condition, TIA, nor any other diagnosis. Nonetheless,

Respondent subsequently administered chelation therapy to treat

Patient I1, but chelation therapy is not a medically indicated

treatment of TIA, the patient'a medical condition. »

.

9. On numerous and diverse occasions between on or about
July 20, 1989, and August 2, 1989, Respondent administered ethylene

diamine tetracetic acid (EDTA) as rhelation therapy.

10. Chelation therapy is not recognized or approved by the

Food and Drug Administration (FDA).

11. Respondent administered EDTA, a legend drug as defined by
Section 465.003(7), Florida Statutes, to Patient I1, destite the
fact that EDTA has no medical value as a treatment for her
condition, transient ischemic attack (TIA) or other cardiovascular
difficulties.

12. In the treatment of Patient I1, Respondent failed to
comply with the FDA guidelines for consenting to experimental
therapy in that the wording of Respondent's informed consent form
did not, in fact, inform Patient #1 of the experimental nature of
chelation therapy.

13. Respondent failed to inform Patient II that chelation
therapy has no recognized medical value as a treatment for TIA or
other cardiovascular difficulties.

l4. Respondent failed to obtain Patient [1's fully informed
consent in that Respondent failed to provide Patient [1 with

sufficient information regarding the value of chelation therapy in

treating TIA.

n(\nrH1Q

15. Respondent made fraudulent representations in the
practice of medicine in that Respondent's chelation therapy
treatments of Patient I1 were not medically indicateq as chelation
therapy has no value in tieéting TIA or any other cardiovascular
difficulties. Further, Respondent provided Patient #1 with a
misleading brochure that implied that chelation therapy is a FDA—
approved treatment when, in fact, chelation therapy is not
recognized by the FDA for use in the treatment of TIA.

COQET O}! E

16. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through fifteen (15) as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

17. Respondent administered a legend drug in excesgive or
inappropriate quantities in that Respondent administered ethylene
diamine tetracetic acid (EDTA) as chelation therapy to treat
Patient #1’5 transient ischemic attack (TIA), but EDTA has no value
in the treatment of cardiovascular difficulties such as TIA.

18. Based on the preceding allegatic1s, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(q), Florida Statutes, by prescribing,
dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing a legend
drug, including any controlled substance, other than in the ccurse
of the physician’s professional practice. For the purposes of this
paragraph, it shall be legally presumed that prescribing,
dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing legend
drugs, including all controlled substances, inappropriately or in

excessive or inappropriate quantities is not in the best interest

A nn(\(\\ﬁ

of the patient and is not in the course of the physician's

professional practice, without regard to his intent.

; 99931.1!9 »

19. Petitioner realieges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through fifteen (15), and seventeen (17) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

20. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that level or
care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as acceptable level of care under similar
conditions and circumstances in that Respondent failed to perform
an adequate physical, or make a diagnosis of Patient [1’s
condition. Respondent’s subsequent use of chelation therapy to
treat Patient [1’s condition is not within the acceptable standards
of care for medical practice in the State of Florida.

21. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
SeCtion 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, by gross or repeated
malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that level of
care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances.

COUNT THREE

22. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

through fifteen (15), seventeen (17), and twenty (20) as if fully

set forth herein this Count Three.

23. Respondent failed to keep written medical records

justifying the course of treatment of Patient ii in that Respondent

: nnﬂﬂ\‘

failed to adequately record Patient {1’5 physical examination or
history in the medical records.

24. Based on'ﬁhe preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, by failing to keep written
medical records justifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or
administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations.

COUNT FOUR

25. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through fifteen (15), seventeen (17), twenty (20), and tuenty~three
(23) as if fully set forth herein this Count Four.

26. Respondent prescribed a therapy which, by the prevailing
standards of the medical community, would constitute
experimentation on a human subject, without first obtaining full,
ihformed, and written consent in that Respondent failed to obtain
Patient 31’s fully informed consent by failing to provide Fatient
#1 with sufficient information regarding the value of chelation
therapy in treating transient ischemic attack (TIA).

27. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(l)(u), Florida Statutes, by performing any
procedure or prescribing any therapy which, by the prevailing
standards of medical practice in the community, would constitute

experimentation on a human subject, without first obtaining full,

informed, and written consent.

6 0000‘2

