DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATI ED
BOARD OF MEDICINE

Department of Professional Regulation

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL - DEPUTY CLERK~
REGULATION, ( , ,g 3 E @39
Pet’tioner CLER
l ’ DATE W.»

-vs-- DPR CASE NUMBER: 90-06866
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0037778”
JOSE JOAQUIN ALDRICH, M.D., ’

Respondent.

./

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on June 4, 1993L
in West Palm Beach, Florida, for consideration of a Consent
Agreement (attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the
parties in the above—styied case. Upon consideration of the
Consent Agreement, the documents submitted in support thereof,
the arguments of the parties, and being otherwise advised in the
premises, the Board accepted the Consent Agreement with an
amendment offered at the hearihg, which amendment was
affirmatively accepted without objectien by the parties.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and hereby is approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein with the following addition:

Respondent's practice shall forever be restricted in that he
shall not provide physicial therapy services in his office unless'
he has licensed physical therapy personnel in his office“

Accordingly, the parties shall adhere to and abide by the

terms and conditions Of the Consent Agreement as amended.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the
Department of Professional Regulation.

DONE AND ORDERED this Mf4 day of

  
 

§ERTEFICATD
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a t. e a‘d correct copy of the‘

foregoing Order has been provide- by certified mail to Jose

Joaquin Aldrich, M.D., 8560 S.W. 123rd Street, Miami, Florida
33156—5832, Mark A. Dresnick, Attorney at Law, Grand Bay Plaza,
Suite 201, 2665 South Bayshore Drive, Miami, Florida 3313345402,
and by interofficé delivery to Larry G“ McPherson,_Jr., Chief
Medical Attorney, Department of Professional Regulation, 1940
North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, at or

befcre 5:00 P.M., this day of ' 1993.

June930rders

 

ill .

i1. Patient #1 was admittad to the hospitsl with a diagnosis
Bf septic meningitis, and later she was found to have vertebral
_osteomye1itis aﬁd bacterial endocarditis.

12. Respondent's records for Patient #1 faii ts address an
effort ta establish the presence of recoénized criteria for making
a diagnosise

13. Respondent failed t0 perform a systematic Assessment df
Patient #1'5 condition.

14. Respondent's treatment plan for Patient #1 was very brdad
and was not based on an adequately established diagnosis.

COUNT ONE;

15. Petitioner realleges and inﬂorporates paragraphs one (1)
through fourteen (14), as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

15. Respondent failed ta keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of the patient including, but
not limited to the following: Respondent failed to record a
description of Patient #1’5 neck range of motion or ténderness, no
temperature or other vital signs obtained, no history or physical
examination was performed; Respondent diagnosed Patient #1 as

having an acute cervical radiculopathy; although there is ,no
documentation of findings to suppert this diagnosis; Respondent's
records for Patient #1 fail to address an effort to establish the
presence of recognized criﬁeria for makiLg a diagnosis; Respondent
failed to perform a systematic assessment oi“ Patient #1's

.4

condition; andxer Respondent’s treatment plan for Patient #1 was

 

very broad and was not based on an adequately established

diagnasis.

17. Based on the foregoing, Respondent is-in Violation cf
section 458.331i1)(m) Florida Statutes, in that the RaspcndEnt
failed to keep written medical re¢ards justifying the cdurse of
treatment of the patient, including but, not limited to patient
rhistcries; examination results; test results; recoraé of drugs
prescribed, dispensed, or administered, and reports bf
consultations and hospitalizations. {

QQHEI_IEQ

18. Petitioner realleges and incarporates by reference
paragraphs one (1) through fourteen (14), and sixteen (16) as if
fully set forth in this Count Two. ’

L 19. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that level of
care, ski}; and. treatment which a reasonably prudent similar-
physician recognizes as acceptable under similar cénditicns and
circumstances as evidenced when the Respondent failed to obtain x+
rays of Patient {1's affected area, failed to obtain either a,
complete blood count or basic blood wor’; when Respondent diagnosed
Patient #1 as having an acute cervical radiculopéthy, althbugh‘
there is no documentation of findings to support this diagnosis;
Respondent prescribed and/or treated Patient #1 with local
corticasteroid injections, intra-muscular and oral steroids as well
as non—steroidal anti—inflammatory medicqtions, physical therapy
and muscle relaxants for Patient #1 when Respondenttdid not have an

«1

adequate working diagnosis; Respondent’s records for Patient #1

4

 

fail to adaress an effort to establish the presence of recognizéa
critetia,for making a diagnosis; Respondent féiled to perform ar
systematic assessment of Patient #1'3 condition; yand/br
Respondent's treatment plan for Patient #1 was Very broad and watt
not based on ah adequately established diagnosis.

20. Based_on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Station 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, in that Respondeﬁt is
guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or the failure to practice
medicine with that level of care, skill and treatment which is
recogﬁized by a reasonable prudent similar yhysician as being
acceptable under similar conditions and cirCumstances.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully ,requests the, Board 'éf‘
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondeht’s litense,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition‘ of* an
administrative fine, issuance of a repfimand, placement df the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems Appropriate.

SIGNED this I} day of W 1992.

rry G. McPherson, Jr.,
Chief Medical Attorney

      

 

swat: or rnonxnn
unranmnsam or pnorxssxaunn nzaunnrxau

n ‘ﬁﬁill! or rnorzasxumAL
E _ lﬁxu:

?otitionor,
v. , ‘
9:! can! no. oc—oioqt

$08!;JQAQBIH ALDRICH, M.D.

Ruuyeudent.

 

Jess JOkQUIN ALDRICB, E.D., rarorrcd to $5 the “Ralpoﬁdcnt,“
and the Department of Profasaicnml Regulation, ictutrad to ad
"Dspnrtaent," stipulate and agree tu the follawing Agrocmunt and to
thu antry or a Final order at the Basra of medicine, rotcrzud to as
"Boara," incorporating the Stipulatad Facts and Stipulatad
Diapaaiticn in this matter.

SEZXHLEIED.EAQZS

19 At all timss material karate; Respondent was a liaanned
phyaician in the state cf Florida having been isgued licanlo number
32 0937773. ‘ ‘

2. Ruupondent was chargcd by an Administrative Complaint
fileﬁ by the Department and properly aarved upon 30-pondohﬁ with
violaﬁions oz cha¢--r 458, Florida statutes, and the ruins unnctad

puzauant thn:uta. A true and carrect copy at the Administrative

Ccmplaint is attached heteto as Exhibit A.

2. Roapondant neither admits mo: dgnioa tho allegatiohl at

taut\uant:ined in thn Administrative CampLaint.. , L
SIIEELélEELSDNSLHEIQN£_QE.LAE

;. Rsupapdlnt admits that, in his capacity II t lialnaoﬂ
phyiician, he'll subject to the prcviuiono 0: Chaptorl 455 ﬁnd ‘50}
‘ Florida Statutes. and the jurisdiction 0! the Doparcmont and the
Board. ,

2. R&Ipondent admits that‘ th: rects set rarth in an:
Administrative Complaint, 1: proven, would constitute violaticnl of
Chapter 455, Florida Statutes, as allaqed in thc Adminiltrat1VI
Complaint.

§§l§2§é§§2.ﬂ1§29§l21ﬂ3

1. ggzggg CQEDUCT, ﬁespondant shall not in thi £uturo~

vmla’m Chaptnrs 455,. 453 and 893, Florida Statutes. Ortho rules

promulgated pursuant thereta. ,

2. zznn. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in
tha amaunt of $10,000 (ten thousand dollars) againlﬁ tht
Respondent. Thu fine shall be paid by the Respendent t9 thl Board

0: Nodicino within 60 (sixty) days of its impasitian by Final Ordcr
a: tna Board.

3. REEBIEBED‘ The Respondent shall roceiVa a raprimund iron
the Soard or Medicine‘

=. within six month:

 

at tax filing of the Final order in this came, the Raspandant shall
qlva a farm5l presentation, in lecture format. to the medical stat!

of chm fallowing Hospitals; Daator’s Hospital of Coral Gables,

\.,

.--.,

 

81516”: Respitnl and Coral Gables ﬂosplnaL 2m! concsnx: Q: can «
presentatien shall :9. a thatcugh axplanaticm at ‘tho' circumstance:
and rusuats, muucal and adminiyntrativm, surrounding, thi- *aana.

:Mditiomlly; the lecture shall specifically includt that 131:.
entries; in naéieal racer“; regardluus 'af {dhemor they arc
accurate, must bu clearly marked as latu‘enti-iés er clan Ltwﬂl bu,
connidexes uricusly by the _ Dlpnztmemt and the 303% m m,
alteration or the racord in violation c1! Thu Medical Practico Ace,
cnaptdr 453, Florida statutes. m. Respondant shall document
thou prezmntation by a report to the scam which emu; includu 2h.
proﬁntatien outline. date and time o: presentation and the what
Le: nodical Ital! 1n lttnndanca.
5« W2

I A. W. R-spmndent must Rug curtain
rnidance and business addresses an file with the Board-
Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (3.0) day: of any
changes 92 laid addreucs. Furthermore, Respondgnt shall notify»
the Beard within ten (10) days in the event that nupondant mm.
the activa practiéa or medicine in Flar-ida. I ,

5. m Respondent shall pay all costs
necessary to comply with the terms or this Consent Agreemmt‘.‘

C. W. Unless otherwise dircetod by
the Board prgicc, all rlports, corrupondcnca and inquirinu shall
ho saint to: Board of Hadicine, 1940 “mu: Monro. strut;
Tallahmcam Florida 32399-0?92, Attn: Final Order Compliance
Ofﬁcer. '

6. rt in axpr-ssly understaod that this Agruuucnt il uuhjnat
tﬁ éha approval a! the Beard and tho Dopartment. In this regard,
the ﬁaruqoinq paragraphs (and only thn :ozeqeinq patngraﬁhs) lhazl
have n? 2:209 and affect unions a final Ordar.1ncorporatihq the
term“ a: this Agreement is entered by the Beard.' ,

7. Raspandent_shall appear hetero the Board at the necking oz
tha Board NhIrG thix Agreement is considered. Respondent. 1n
ccnjuﬁction with the cansideration of thin Agrocmunt by tn; Board,

shall respond to quastiane under oath from the Board; Banrd star!
or Dapartuent Staff.

  

5. Should this Agreement bu rejectné, no statement nsdc in

turthernnce of this Agreement by the Rcupondent may bu used an
circa: cvideucc against the Respondent in any proceeding; hawaver,
tuck statemqnts may be used by the Petitioner tér inp-nchnnnt
purpaaat.

g. Raupondent and the Department fully undarstand that this
joint Aqreemant and Iubsequant Final Order incorpdratinq :ane will
in ne way procluda additicnal procuodings by the Board and/or inn
nopartmcnt against tha Respondent for acts or omianions not

syauifically Got forth in DPR came Number 90-06866 or in tn:
Adminiatrntivc complaint which is attacraa as Exhibit A hcxcin.

19. Upon tha aoard's adoption or this Agreement, Relpondone

sxpramsly waivus all furthar procedural stays and axyroualy waives

{

an sights to std; judicial review» at or 9:0 awawho rehnllmn er
canﬂ:eut the validity of the Agreement and the rintl exact o: the
305m incomratinq aaié Aquomant.

1.1. Upan the scum adeptinn-of this Agrawgnt‘ t_hc puma ,
haraiby nqru_ that nan party will bear niaown aﬁtcrnuy's rug and
acatw resulting tram prosecution 'or defense of this mgttar.
Rnapcndcn’cg waivnl the right to see: any ,attarnuy'g to“ o: dost:
2m tho Dtputment. in connection with this matter. L , ,

12. This Agreement is examutcd by the [Raspondont to: the
purpose or avoiding antiher administratiQQ action w;th rispbct ea
thin; causa. In this regard, Rupondent authorizesthe Board to
ravinw and examine all investigative file material: concjrninq
Reopgnﬁunc prior to or in csnjunction with ccnnidutahion o: the-
Agraamcat. iurthermore, should this joint Aqrncncnt not b.
anomptnd by the Board, 1: is agreed that presentation to and
comment» of thia agreement; and other: documents and mlttu'u by
tbs Board shall not unfairly or illagally prejudice tho Board or
any at its mumhcr: from further participation, consideratian or

resolution 0: thus: groceedings.

 

3010:: Inc. personally appearsi Jose J._A1drich _ ,
macaw Ldmtity, is known to mm by “Driver's Licmense {Ema of
idsntleicction) and W310, under anh, aéﬁnowiaqu ﬁat 331%
signatutc appears abovd. ' ,

31mm :9 and subscribed batozre me this r 6:th » any at‘
Max , 1893. I, , ~ :’ ﬁ-T ,

  
    
 
 
 

My Gemini” Expires: 35’
Ni \.

37MB;

, ,(U7 ' _
, f //
APPROVED this 4. day or ’ L “5/ , 1993.

George Stuart _

anarntary “ d 7

 

Chis: ttorhay
Medical Section

 

F I L ED

Department of ProfesSiom! Regu‘ﬁﬁOﬁ
~ (AGENCY CLERK

STATE or FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL. REGULAT 0 av
BOARD OF MEDICINE

 

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL CLERK

REGULATION - ..
' DATE ______]_________‘§‘Z
Petitioner,

vs. Case No. 90-06866

JOSE JOAQUIN ALDRICH, “.0.

Respondent.

_.________a._______~_________w~_____~____J

ADMIEL§IBAIIEEL£EM2LALEE

COHES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulatienr hereinafter referred to as “Petitioner“, and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
JOSE JOAQUIH ALDRICH, M.D.hereinafter referred to as "Respondent“.
and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant t6 Section 20.30,, Florida
Statutes, Chapter 455, Florida Statutes and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent island has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Flcrida, having been issued
license number ME 0037778. Respondent’s last known address is
8560 S.W. 123rd St. Miami, FL. 33156-5832. I

3. On or about March 25, 1988, Patient #1, a 48 year old
female presented to the Respondent with complaintsvpf cervical and

H,

mid theracic pain.

4. Raspondent's record of Patient #1’revea1 no description of‘

her néck range of motion or tenderness} no teﬁperature or other
vital signs were obtained, and no history or physical examination
was perfarmed. I

5. Respondent did not obtain x-rays of Patient {1's affectéd
area, nor did Respondent obtain either a complete blood cdunt or
basic blood work.

6. Respondent diagnosed Patiant #1 as having an acute
cervical radiculopathy, although, thare is no documentation 6f
findiﬁgs to support this aiagnosis.

7. Respondent prescribeé andjor treated Patient #1 with local
corticosteroid injections, intra-muscular and oral steroids as well;
as non-steroidal anti—inflammatory medications, physical therapy
and muscle relaxants.

8. Steroids may sometimes be ﬁsed for an inflammatory
process, however this is usually documented with an elevated
sedimentation rate. Corticosteroid are usually used in the later
phases ef treatment when other modalities have failed to work,

provided the risks are recognized, and there are no contra—

indications.

9. Steroids may sometimes be used for back or neck discomfort
with a clear cut radiculopathy, and/or may help nerve root
irritation in some circumstances. Steroids may accelerate an
infection process.

10. On or about April 10, 1988, Patient ilﬁg condition had

déteriorated and she presenteé to an emergency facility critically

