 

C. I C(FILED;.
" ,‘ Department of Professional Reguiaﬁnﬂ
AGENCY CLERK

- DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATIW
. BOARD OF MEDICINE 0900M

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL

 

CE RK
REGULATION, 1C)—
. DATE .__.——IQ———9———
Petltloner,
v. DPR CASE NUMBER: 90-00535 00305§

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0028142
FREDDIE LEE MCRAE, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER
THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on September 21, 1991, th
Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the partiee ihi
the above-styled case. Upon. consideration of the Conseét

Agreement, the documents submitted in support thereof, the

arguments of the parties,’ and being otherwise advised in the

premises,

‘IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. The Administrative Complaint on
which the Consent Agreement is based was amended on the record to
reflect the correct license number for Respondent: ME 0028142
Accordingly, the parties shall adhere to and abide by all of the

terms and conditions of the ansent Agreement.

 

 

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Department.

DONE AND ORDERED this 37% day Aquﬂlmkm . 1991.

 

BOARD OF MEDICI E

/
//%/

ZACHAR AH P. ZACHARIAH, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S; Mail to Freddie Lee McRae,
M.D., Suncoast Medical Clinic, 700 6th Street South, St.
Petersburg, Florida 33711, and Donald V. Bulleit, Esquire, Fowler,
White, Gillen, Boggs, Villareal & Banker, P.A., P.O. Box 210, st.
Petersburg, Florida 33731 and by interoffice delivery to Larry G.
McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney, Department of Professional
Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe Street,

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792, at or before 5:00 P.M., this

2 b; ”d day of 4&@ , 1991.

    

D 'ROTHY J. ,n
Executive Director

( C

that he had failed to follow up on the biopsy report from on or
about April 28, 1988, to on or about November 3, 1988, and his
consultation with Dr. Kozlov.

16. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, by failing to keep written medical
records justifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or
administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board
of Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s license,
restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this 0V day of ﬂi/L , 1991.

George Stgert
Secretagy’ ;)

7

 
   
 

 

. McPherson, J .l
ting Chief Medical Attorney

F'ILED

Department of Pr ‘ -
messmna! Re '
AGENCY CLERK gubnon

(>35me

I
4 DATE 4%

 

l, t: C

~ ~

.DBEARIHENI OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
. BOARD OF HEDICINE ‘

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION, 2

Petitiongr,

vs. DOLE CASE No.: 91—003055
DPR CASE N0.: 90—000535
FREDDIE LEE HCRAE, H.D.,

Respondent.

___________________________________/
CONSENT AGREEHENT
Freddie Lee McRae, M.D., referred to as the "Respondent",

and the Department of Professional Regulation, referred to as

"Department", stipulate and‘agree to the following Consent
Agreement and to the entry of a Final Order of the Board of
Medicine, referred to as "Board", incorporating this Consent
Agreement and the agreement in this matter.

STIPULATED FACTS

, 1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a
licensed_physician in the State of Florida having been issued
license number ME 0028142.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint

filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules
enacted pursuaht thereto. A true andlcorrect copy of the
Administrative Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations

of fact contained in the Administrative Complaint.

000002

(i . C

STIPULAIED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. Reéppndent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, he }s-subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and
458, Florida'statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department and
the Board. I

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, 1f proven, would constitute violations
of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the
Administrative Complaint.

STIPULATED DISPOSITION
1. FUTURE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the future

violate Chapter 455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules

promulgated pursuant thereto. 2
. P'

 

2. FINE. The Board shall impose an administrative fine
in the amount of $3,000. against the Respondent. The fine shall
be paid by the Respondent t6 the Board of Medicine within 30 days

of its imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. REPRIMAND. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand

from the Board of Medicine.

4. OBLIGATIONS/REQUIREMENTS. Within one year of the

entry of a Final Order incorporating this Consent Agreement,
Respondent shall comply with the following obligations and
requirements:

a. CONTINUING MEDICAL EDUCATION. Respondent shall
attend 10 hours of Category 1, Continuing Medical Education, in

area of Risk Management. Respondent shall submit a written plan

000003

C C

to the Chairman of the Probation Committee for course approval
prior to the cdhﬁletion of said courses.‘ The Beard confers
authority on the Chairman of the Probation Committee to approve

or disapprove said coursese. In addition, Respohdent shall submit

documentation of completion of these courses. These hours shall
be in addition to those hours required for renewal of licensure.
Unless otherwise approved by the Board or the Chairman of the

Probation Committee said courses shall consist of a formal live

lecture format.

b. QUALITY ASSURANCE PLAN. The Respondent shall

institute and present to the Board of Medicine the details of a

quality assurance plan, which he shall develop for his practice

 

within one hundred and eighty (180) days of the entry of a Finh!.ﬁ

Order incorporating this Stipulation.

5. It is expressly understood that this Consent
Agreement is subject to the approval of the Board and the
Depattment. In this regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only
the foregoing paragraphs) shall have no force or effect unless a

Final Order is entered incorporating the terms of this Consent

Agreement, by the Boatd.

6. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the
meeting of the Board where this Consent Agreement considered.
Respondent, in conjunction with the consideration of this Consent

Agreement by the Board, shail respond to questions under oath

from the Board, Board Staff or Department Staff.

0000014

< C

7.. Should this Consent Agreement be rejected, no

statement made in furtherance of this Consent Agreement, by the
Respondent may be used as direct evidence against the Respondent

in any proceeding; howevet, such statements may be used by the

Petitioner for impeachment purposes.
A

8. Respondent and the Department fully understand that
this Consent Agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating
same will in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board

and/or the Department against the Respondent for acts or

omissions not, specifically set forth in the AdministratiVe.'

Complaint attached as Exhibit "A" herein.
9. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Consent Agreemehﬁfﬁ
Respondent expressly waives all further procedural steps, anh

expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to

otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the Consent

Agreement and the Final Order of the Board incorporeting said
Conseht Agreement.

10. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Consent Agreement,
the parties hereby agree that each party will hear his own
attorney's fees and chsts resulting from prosecution or defense
of this matter. Respondent waives the right to seek any
attorney's fees or casts from the Department in connection with
this matter.

11. This Consent Agreement is executed by the Respondent

for the purpose of avoiding further administrative action with

' ' nnnnn:

(i C *'

respect ;o_th1s cause. In this regard, Requndent authorizes the.
Board to réﬁiéw and examine all investigative file materiais and

other mategials concerning Respondent priof to or in conjunction

with consfaeration of thg Consent Agreement.- Furthermore, should

this joint Consent Agreement not be accepted by the Board, 1: 15

agreed that presentation to and consideration of this Consent

Agreement and other documents and matters by the Board shall not

unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or any of its members

from further participation, consideration or resolution of these

proceedings.

SIGNED this .J‘ 1 day of 51!..u-w—w/ 1991. «

_: '_‘ l

A ’l I
17 . May. 1;. / 1 ‘4— A1.
. I

 

L____A.;h_
Freddie Lee HcRae, HuD.

Sworn to and subscribed
before me th s ZSEE—day
of , 199].

 
 
   

OTARY PUBLIC NMAnerQNAnornmmAArunq

My COMMISSION KIPIN‘S MA‘CH 23, I99!
. n '
Hy Commlssion Expires: °"“°"“U*WM‘"W*“”“““H%

/.
0 /
APPROVED this.,)(2 day of v 66/, az/ , 1991.

/
(george Stuart

Sec etary
W x_/ ‘7/7/ /;7’

,' /‘

1' _// / /, _ /

f 4 végz- x_ﬂ., , .
.\‘.I By: Larry McPherEoni Jr.

Chief Medical Attorney

ﬁncpctg

(f C

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

PETITIONER,
VS. CASE NO. 90-000535
FREDDIE LEE MCRAE, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

AMENDED ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
FREDDIE LEE McRAE, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent,"
and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with
regulating the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30,
Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458,
Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been
issued license number ME 0028142. Respondent's last known address
is Suncoast Medical Clinic, 700 — 6th Street South, Saint
Petersburg, Florida, 33711.

3. From on or about March 29, 1988, through
January 31, 1989, Respondent treated Patient #1, a sixty—seven (67)
year old male, for painful hemorrhoids.

1

(l C

4. On or about April 28, 1988, Respondent performed
the following surgical procedures on Patient #1 at Bayfront Medical
Center in Saint Petersburg, Florida: a rigid proctosigmoidoscopy;
an internal/external hemorrhoidectomy; a fistulectomy with partial
lateral internal sphincterectomy.

5. Subsequent to the aforementioned surgical
procedures specimens of anal ulceration/hemorrhoids were submitted
to the Department of Pathology at Bayfront Medical Center.

6. On or about April 29, 1988, a pathologist prepared
a report on the submitted specimens which revealed that several
pathologists agreed that the histology was suspicious for mucin
producing adenocarcinoma. The pathologist recommended that
additional diagnostic biopsy material should be obtained for
further evaluation.

7. On or about November 3, 1988, Dr. Nicholas A.
Kozlov, one of Patient #1’s treating physicians, reviewed Patient
#1’s chart and found the April 29, 1988 biopsy report. Based on
the fact that Dr. Kozlov failed to see a note on the patient's
chart regarding the biopsy report, Dr. Kozlov brought the report
to Respondent’s attention.

8. Subsequently, on or about November 17, 1988,
Respondent performed a colostomy.

9. Respondent failed to follow up on the biopsy report
on specimens he submitted for evaluation on or about April 28,
1988, until on or about November 3, 1988, when Dr. Kozlov brought

it to Respondent’s attention.

(5 F

10. Respondent’s medical records failed to reflect when

Dr. Kozlov informed Respondent of the biopsy report.
COUNT ONE

11. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs
one (1) through ten (10), as if fully set forth herein this Count
One.

12. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that
level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a
reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under
similar conditions and circumstances, in that Respondent failed to
follow up on the results of a biopsy report pertaining to specimens
Respondent submitted for evaluation.

13. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, by being' guilty of gross or
repeated malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that
level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a
reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under
similar conditions and circumstances.

COUNT TWO

14. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs
one (1) through ten (10), and twelve (12), as if fully set forth
herein this Count One.

15. Respondent failed to keep written medical records

justifying the course of treatment when Respondent failed to note

