FILED

Department of Profs:
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATIONEHCYCLHM

BOARD OF MEDICINE
©3041?
/‘
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL (“LM/

  

 

REGULATION, CLERK
Petitioner, DATE M;
—vs— DPR CASE NUMBER: 9006895

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0018483
GILBERT A. SCHNIRMAN, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on April 13,
1991, in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, for consideration of a
Stipulation (attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between
the parties in the above-styled case. Upon consideration of the
Stipulation, the documents submitted in support thereof, the
arguments of the parties, and being otherwise advised in the
premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulation as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the
Stipulation.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department.

DONE AND ORDERED this :26" day of $2M? , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

ZACHARI P. ZACHARIAH, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

 

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Gilbert A.
Schnirman, M.D., 9425 West Sample Road, Coral Springs, Florida
33065—4102, and by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson,
Jr., Attorney at Law, Department of Professional Regulation,

Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida

32399—0792, at or before 5:00 P.M., this 9% day of

_A&j_,1991. M&ﬁ?’ ' *0

 

Orders/Schnirman

7. Pursuant to Rule 21M-28.002(6), Florida Administrative

Code, the following courses have been approved by the Board of

Medicine for continuing education:

a. Organized courses approved for American Medical
Association Category I Continuing Medical Education credits or
Accepted for the American Medical Association physician

recognition award.

b. Any postgraduate training program accredited by the

Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education.

c. The following specialty training: American College of
Emergency Physicians, Category I; American Academy of Family
Physicians prescribed credit; and American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists cognates.

8. On or about November 13, 1987, Respondent signed the
following statement which was thereafter submitted as part of the
request to renew his license to practice medicine:

I hereby certify that during the period
January 1, 1986, through December 31, 1987, I
have obtained no fewer than forty (40) hours of
continuing medical education courses which meets
the requirement of Chapter 455.213(5), Florida
Statutes, and Rule 21M-28.002(6) Florida Administrative
Code. I further certify that at least five (5) of
the forty (40) hours concern risk management pursuant
to Rule 21M—28.002(2) Florida Administrative Code.
I understand that I must maintain such receipts,
vouchers, certificates, or other papers to document
completion of the CME requirements for a period

of not less than four (4) years from the date the
course was taken.

I affirm that these statements are true and
correct and recognize that providing false
information may result in a fine, suspension or
revocation of my license as provided in Florida
Statutes 455.2275, 775.082, Or 775.084.

9. The aforementioned statement was required as part of the

renewal process for the licensing period from January 1, 1988,
through December 31, 1989. Without this statement, Respondent
could not have renewed his license to practice medicine in
Florida.

10. Respondent successfully renewed his license to practice
medicine in Florida. That renewal was based, in part, on the
aforementioned statement regarding completion of Continuing
Medical Education.

11. Thereafter, Respondent was selected randomly for audit
purposes to verify his continuing medical education for the
period covered in his statement (January 1, 1986 through December
31, 1987).

12. On or about February 20, 1989, Respondent was mailed a
letter acknowledging receipt of his Continuing Medical Education
documentation. However, said documents were returned because
Respondent failed to submit documentation verifying the risk
management credits for his continuing medical education for the
period from January 1, 1986 through December 31, 1987,

13. Respondent has failed to provide documentation for 5
hours of risk management, and has failed to mail documentation
material regarding the 35 hours of Category I CMEs.

CQHEI_QNE
14. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

Lhrough thirteen (13) as if fully set forth herein this Count

One.

15. Respondent violated a rule of the Board, in that
Respondent failed to submit documentetion verifying his
continuing medical education, including risk management credits,
for the period from January 1, 1986 through December 31, 1987, in
response to the Board's random audit, and thereby failed to
comply with Rule 21M—28.002, Florida Administrative Code.

16. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated

Section 458.331(1)(x), Florida Statutes, by violating any
provision of this chapter, a rule of the board or department, or
a lawful order of the board or department previously entered in a
disciplinary hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully issued
subpoena of the department.

COUNT TWO

17. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through thirteen (13) and fifteen (15) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

18. Respondent renewed his license by fraudulent
misrepresentation, in that Respondent falsely certified that he
had completed the continuing medical education requirements for
the period from January 1, 1986, through December 31, 1987.

19. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(a), Florida Statutes, by attempting to obtain,
obtaining, or renewing a license to practice medicine by bribery,
by fraudulent misrepresentations, or through an error of the
department or the board.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of

Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following

penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent‘s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

. Ii , .
SIGNED this _;r7ﬁhay of <7 , 15/ , 1990.

Larry Gonzalez, Secretary

By: Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Senior Attorney

Florida Bar No. 788643 F I L E E) .
Department of Professional Regulation DemnnwntofmoksmnmRegﬁmmn
1940 N. Monroe Street, Ste. 60 AGENCYCLERK

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792

(904) 488-0062 £23;112 c:
1/

LAQg/PM/gs UIRK
Q4740

 

8/22/90

DATE

 

“W

H‘

 
   
    

    

,

 

FLOR] DA BOARD OF MEDICINE
1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahagee, Florida 32399-0770
Telephone (904) 488—0595

chm
Zachariah Pt Zachariah, MD.
Fork lauderdale. Florida

Vice ax‘ on
Luis H, Serenu'lL M‘D.
P011 Charlotte, Florida

Members
Fuad S. Ashkar, MD.

Miami, Florida

James N. Bun, MD.
Iacksonvnlle, Florida

Pamela A. Mi Campbell, Esq.
St. Fe(exsburg, Florida

Richard [mes Cavallaro, M.D‘
Napla, Florida

Edward A. Dauer, MD,
For! laudexdalc, Fiend!

Mary Kathryn Can-eu, MD.
Orlando, Florida

Manning H. Hanline, In, MD,
Pensacolm Florida

Richard McEwen
Tallahassee, Florida

Louis C Murray, MD,
Orlando. Florida

Gilbert M. Rodriguez
Tampa, Horida

Marilyn Wells, MD.
Miami, Florida

Gary E. Winchester. MO
Tallahassee, Florida

Exegj'ye Director
Dorothy I. Fau-cloth

FLORIDA BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION “2‘23,“

 

 

George Shun
Sanury

August 16, 1991

Gilbert A. Schnirman, M.D.
9425 West Sample Road
Coral Springs, FL 33065

Dear Dr. Schnirman:

This is to inform you that a review of your file reflects
that you have complied with the requirements of the Final
order of the Board of Medicine, dated May 6, 1991.

If you have any questions regarding this matter, please
do not hesitate to contact me at the Board office.

Sincere 1y ,

Constance Campbel 1

Administrative Assistant II
Board of Medicine

DIVISION OF MEDICAL QUALITY ASSURANCE
NOKI'HWOOD CENTRE - 1940 NORTH Mormon STREET . TALLAHASSEE. FLORIDA 32399-0770

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
v. DPR CASE NO.: 90-06895
GILBERT A. SCHNIRMAN, M.D.,

ﬁespondent.

/

STIPULATION

GILBERT A. SCHNIRMAN, M.D., the Respondent, and the Department
of Professional Regulation, referred to as Department, stipulate
and agree to the following joint Stipulation and to the entry of
a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as Board,
incorporating this Stipulation and the agreement in this matter.

STIPULATED FACTS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed
physician in the State of Florida having been issued license number
ME 0018483.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
vioiations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules enacted
purseaht thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative
Complaiht is attached hereto and incorporated by reference as
Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of
fact contained in the Administrative Complaint attached hereto as

Exhibit A.

U\J¥3”

muuaymmprumxgmp—«W—‘MWNN .__...,_-..._ . .. -muh F..~,_.\..._ww.— ,.

STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. Respondent, in his capacity as a licensed physician,
admits that in such capacity he i; subject to the provisions of
Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the
Department and the Board.
2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, constitute violations of

Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative
Complaint.
STIPULATED DISPOSITION

1. Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters 455,
458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated pursuant
thereto.

2. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in the
amount of $1,000.00 against the Respondent. The fine shall be paid
by the Respondent to the Executive Director of the Board within
thirty days of the imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. The Reepondent shall receive a reprimand from the Board
of Medicine.

4. Within six months of the filing of the Final Order
incorporating the terms of this Stipulation, Respondent shall
submit documentation to demonstrate his compliance with all of the
continuing education requirements for the i§§§~f i2 1 and 1388 -
E589 licensing bienniums. Such documentation shall consist of
certified copies of the receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other
papers, such as the physician's recognition awards issued by the

American Medical Association, as may be necessary to document

completion of the continuing education. In the event that
Respondent fails to timely document compliance with all of the
continuing education requirements fbr the relevant time periods
Respondent‘s license to practice medicine shall be suspended until
such time as documentation of compliance is received by the Board.

5. Within six months of the Filing of the Final Order
incorporating the terms of this Stipulation, Respondent shall
attend 5 hours of Category I Continuing Medical Education courses

in the area of rieh management. Respondent shall submit a written
plan to the Chairman of the Probationer's Committee for approval
prior to the completion of said continuing education hours. The
Board confers authority on the chairman of the Probationer's
Committee' to approve or disapprove said continuing education
courses. In addition, Respondent shall submit documentation (in
the form of certified copies of receipts, vouchers, certificates,
or other papers, such as the physician's recognition awards issued
by the American Medical Association, as may be necessary to
document completion of the continuing education) of completion of
these continuing medical education courses within six months of the
entry of the Final Order in this matter. These hours shall be in
addition to those hours required for renewal of licensure. Unlesg
otherwise approved by the Board or the chairman of the
Probationer's Committee, said continuing education courses shall
consist of a formal live lecture format. In the event that
Respondent fails to timely document completion of the risk

management courses Respondent's license to practice medicine shall

be suspended until such time as documentation of compliance is

received by the Board.

6. Prior to renewing his license at the end of the 1990 —
1991 biennium, Respondent shall be required to document compliance
with the continuing education requirements for that period. Such
documentation shall consist of certified copies of the receipts,
vouchers, certificates, or other papers, such as the physician's

recognition awards issued by the American Medical Association, as

may be necessary to document completion of the continuing

education.

7. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply with
the terms of the Final Order issued based on this Stipulation.
Such costs include, but are not limited to, the cost of preparation
of investigative reports detailing compliance with the terms of
this Stipulation, the cost of analysis of any blood or urine
specimens submitted pursuant to this Stipulation, and the Board's
administrative costs directly associated with Respondent's
probation. See Section 458.531(2), Florida Statutes.

8. It is expressly understood that this Stipulation is
subject to the approval of the Board and the Department. In this
regarding the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing
paragraphs of the stipulated Facts, stipulated Conclusions of Law
and stipulated Disposition) shall have no force and effect unless
a Final Order is entered incorporating the terms of this
Stipulation, by the Board.

9. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting
whereat this Stipulation is considered. Respondent, in conjunction

with the consideration of this Stipulation by the Board, shall

'\
(.

W‘~.Mw~___..—u._—v‘ W.--._._W._‘._i._rm_m .hhi

respond to questions under oath from the Board, Board Staff or
Department Staff.

10. Should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement made
in furtherance of this Stipulation by the Respondent may be used
as direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding.
However, such statements may be used by the Petitioner for
impeachment purposes}

11. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this
joint stipulation and subsequent Final Order incorporating same
will in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board and/or
the Department against the Respondent for acts or admissions not
specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as
Exhibit "A" herein.

12. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps, and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity ef the joint Stipulation ef facts, conclusions
of law and imposition of discipline, and the Fihal Order of the
Board incorporating said Stipulation.

13. Upon the Board‘s adoption of this Stipulation, the
parties hereby agree that each party will bear his own attorney‘s
fees and costs resulting from prosecution and/or defense of this
proceeding. Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's
fees of costs from the 'Department in connection with this
disciplinary proceeding.

14. This Stipulation is executed by the Respondent for the

purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to

this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent, as hell as any factual statements provided by
Respondent or Respondent's counsel, prior to or in conjunction with
consideration of the Stipulation. Furthermore, should this joint
Stipulation not be accepted by the Board, it ‘is agreed that
presentation to and consideration of this Stipulation and other
documents and matters by the Board shall not unfairly or illegally
prejudice the Board or any of its members from further

pérticipation, consideration or resolution of these proceedings.
[7
SIGNED this (a day of

 
   

 

Schnirman, M.D.

Sworn to and subseﬁibed
before me this Aﬁ day
of/Qéz/V/I/xet , 199}.

/ p , / , -.
Q Wk» ( A m. A év
N TARY PUBLIC "’ ‘

Nohry Pubﬁt. SMe of Florich
MY COMission EXpires: Hy Commissian Expires Gd. 3. 1991

[my hill - Imuunu lnL

"' l "/1 .‘ I C] /
APPROVED this 4&8); of JWIW'ﬁ/L'S' ,M.
—'5, m

George Stuart
Secretary

By: Stephanie A. Daniel
Lchief Attorney

Medical Section
Revised: 12/5/90

y-mw» .-‘..-————w..»._.-...

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT or PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION ,

Petitioner, CASE NO. 9006895
VS.
GILBERT A. SCHNIRMAN,

Respondent,

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine- against
Gilbert A. Schnirman, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency Charged with regulating the
practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida Statutes,
Chapter 455, Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto a
licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0018483. Respondent's last known address is 9425
W. Sample Road, Coral Springs, Florida 33065~4102.

3. Pursuant to Section 455.213(5), Florida Statutes, as a
condition of renewal of a license, the Board of Medical Examiners
(Board of Medicine) shall require licensees which it regulates to
pepiodically demonstrate their professional competency by

completing at least 40 hours of continuing education every two

(2) years, of which at least five (5) hours shall concern risk

management. Criteria for, and content of, continuing education

courses shall be approved by the Board.

4. Pursuant to Rule 21M-28.002, Florida Administrative Code,
every physician licensed pursuant to Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, shall be required to complete 40 hours of continuing
medical education courses approved by the Board in the 24 months

preceding each biennial renewal period as established by the

Department. At least five (5) of such continuing medical
education hours required for renewal shall concern risk
management.

5. Pursuant to Section 21M—28.002(2)(a), Florida
Administrative Code, risk management means the identification,
investigation, analysis, and evaluation of risks and the
selection of the most advantageous method of correcting,
reducing, or eliminating identifiable risks.

6. Pursuant to Section 21M—28.002(3), Florida Administrative
Code, part of the application for renewal shall include a form on
which the licensee shall state that he has completed the required
continuing education. Additionally, the licensee must retain
such receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other papers, such as
physician's recognition awards issued by the AMA, as may be
necessary to document completion of the continuing medical
education listed on the renewal form for a period of not less
than four years from the date the course was taken. The Board
will randomly audit a number of licensees to assure that the

continuing education requirements are met.

