STATE OF FLORIDA
BOARD OF MEDICINE

Fimu OnJcr Sn. mntwmss Um?) ' I' ‘ C; 11'

“LED
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE “‘3”? r1323??? Eﬁﬁginiswrim:
ADMINISTRATION, R. 5. uwcl Alum: '|rrk:—~_ -
[3: [mg- —Agcnm .Jmk
Petitioner,

VS. CASE N0.: 91—09210 5: 90—06999
LICENSE NO.: MEDDélBBS

MARK A. LA PORTA, M,D.,
Respondent‘

/

 

FINE.“ [3RDEE

THIS CAUSE came before the Board of Medicine (Boaré) pursuant to
Sections 120.559 and 12ﬂ.57{43, Florida Statutes, on April 4. 199?, in
Ft. Lauderdale. Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the
above*5tyled cause. Upon consideration of the Consent Agreement, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the parties,
and being otherwise advised in the premises,

IT is HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all the terms and conditions of the Consent
Agreement.

This Final Order snall take effect upon bei- ﬁg Ei].ed with the

Clerk of the Agency for Health Care Administration.

DONE AND ORDERED this 2-S’ day of , 1997.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

EDWARD A. BAUER, M.D.
CHAIRPERSON

I OF -RVT

I EEREEY CERTIFY than a true and correct copy of the foregoing
Final Order has been provided by certified mail to Mark A. LaPorta,
M.S.. 1040 Seventy First Street, Miami Beach, Florida 33141; to
Maritza Gonzalez. Esquire, lﬂual Pines Boulevard, Suite E, Pembroke
Pines, Florida 33024; and by interoffica delivery to Larry G.
McPherson, Jr., Chief Attorney, Agency for Health Care Administration,
272? Mahan Drive, Tallahassee, Florida 32308—5403, on or before 5:00

p.m., this day of , 1997.

5. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject
to the approval of the Board and the Agency. In this regard, the
foregoing paragraphs {and only the feregeing paragraphs} shall
have no force and effect unless a Final Order incorporating the
terms of thie Agreement is entered by the Board.

6. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting
of the Board where this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in
conjunction with the consideration of this Agreement by the Board,
shall respond to questions under oath from the Board. Board Staff
or Agency Staff. The Respondent Shall be prepared to explain the
circumstances involved in this matter and what measures have been
taken to prevent a reoccurrence. However, Respondent shall offer
no evidence, testimony or argument that disputes or contravenes
any stipulated fact or conclusion of law.

T. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by the Respondent may be used as
direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding; however,
such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment
purposes.

8. Reepondent and the Agency fully understand that this

joint Agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will

in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board and/or the

Agency against the Respondent for acts or omissions not
specifically set forth in the Aﬁministrative Complaint attached as
Exhibit A herein.

9. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent
expressly waives all further precedural steps and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Agreement.

10. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will hear his own atterney's fees and
costs resulting from prosecution or defense Of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's fees or casts
from the Agency in cennection with this matter.

11. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunctien with consideration of the
Agreement. Furthermore. should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by

the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or

10

any of its members from further participation. consideration or

resolution of these proceedings.

11

SIGNED this 57% day of [ELM , 199?.
LaPORTA. MD.

  

 

Before me, personally appeared ”MM (1.; & lﬁ'r HL—H" 1

whose identity is knogn :g mg by (type of

identificationi and who. under oath, acknowledges that his/her
signature appears above‘

   
  

 

  
 

    

 

7L
Swo to nd subscribed before me this ujj day of
. 1997.
m muuxssm # 01:- 511950

NOTARY PUBLIC Wwﬂmﬁ’ﬂm

My Commission ExpirEs:
/ M
APPROVED this A day of ¢ 1997.

Douglas Cook
Director

x

By: Larry G. McPher
Chief Attorney
Medical Section

./
ln’
' J
\
\
Jr.

         

12

EXHIBIT B
STANDARD TERMS APPLICABLE TO CONSENT AGREEMENTS

The following are the standard terms applicable to all
consent agreements, including supervision and monitoring
provisions applicable to licensees on probation.

A. PAYMENT OF FENES. Unless otherwise directed by
the consent agreement, all fines shall be paid by check or money
order and sent to the Board address set forth in paragraph E,
below. The Board office does not have the authority to change the
terms of payment of any fine imposed by the Board.

B. COMMUNETY SERVICE AND CONTINUING EDUCATION UNITS.

Unless otherwise directed by the consent agreement, all community
service requirements, Continuing education unitS/Courses must be
completed, and documentation of such completion submitted to the
Board of Medicine at the address set forth below in paragraph E,
WITHIN'ONE YEAR OF THE DATE OF THE FINAL ORDER.

C. LAWS AND RULES EXAMINATION. Unless otherwise
directed by the consent agreement, the Respondent shall take and
obtain a score of at least 70% correct on the Laws and Rules
Examination within six months of the Final Order. The Respondent
shall notify the Agency at least one week prior to the date he/she
wishes to take the examination to schedule a time for the

examination at one of the Agency's Investigative Offices. The

13

Respondent may take the examination as many times as needed to
obtain a passing score of 70%, Contact Donna Brown, (90:1)
487—9625, at the Agency for Health Care Administration, to
schedule a time for the examination, or to answer any questions.

D. ADDRESSES. Respondent must keep current residence
and practice addresses on file with the Board. Respondent shall
notify the Board within ten {10) days of any Changes of said
addresses. Furthermore, if the Respondent‘s license is on
probation, the Respondent Shall notify the Board within ten {10)
days in the event that Respondent leaves the active practice of
medicine in Florida.

E. COSTS. Pursuant to Section 458.331{2}I. Florida
Statutes, the Reapondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply
with the terms of this Consent Agreement. Such costs include, but
are not limited to, the costs of preparation of Investigative
Reports detailing compliance with the terms of the Consent
Agreement, obtaining supervision or monitoring of the practice,
the cost of quality assurance reviews, and the Board ' s
administrative costs (31:1:L'ect13.r associated with Respondent's
probation.

F. W Unless otherwise directed by the

Board office, all fines, reports, correspondence and inqu1rles

14

shall be sent to: Board of Medicine, 1940 North Honroe Street,
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792, Attn: Final Order Compliance
Officer.
G. PROBATION TERMS. If probation was imposed by the
Final Order of the Board, the following provisions are applicable.
1. DEFINITIONS:

a. INDIRECT SUQERVISION is supervision by a
monitoring physician (monitor) whose responeibilities are set by
the Board. Indirect supervision does not require that the monitor
practice on the same premises as the Respondent. however, the
monitor shall practice within a reasonable geographic proximity to
Reapondent, which shall be within 20 miles unless otherwise
provided by the Board and shall be readily available for
consultation. The monitor shall be anrd—certified in the
Respondent's specialty area unless otherwise provided by the
Board.

b. ngggg;_§ggggg;§;g§ is supervision by a
supervising physician (supervisor) whose responsibilities are set
by the Board. Direct supervision requires that the supervisor and
Respondent work in the same office. The supervising physician
shall be board—certiﬁied in the Respondent's specialty area unless

otherwise provided by the Board.

15

c. PROBATION COMMITTEE or "committee“ are
members of the Board of Medicine designated by the Chairman of the
Board to serve as the Probation Committee.

2. REQUIRED SUPERVISID .

a. If the terms of the consent agreement
include indirect monitoring of the licenseee‘s practice
(MONITORING) or direct monitoring of the licensees practice
(SUPERVISION), the Respondent shall not practice medicine without
an approved monitor/supervisor. as specified by the Consent
Agreement, unless otherwise ordered by the Board.

b. The monitor/supervisor must he a
licensee under Chapter 453, Florida Statutes, in good standing and
without restriction or limitation on his license. In adéition,
the Board or Cammittee may reject any proposed monitor/supervisor
on the basis that he has previously been subject to any
disciplinary action against his medical licenee in this or any
other jurisdiction, is currently under investigation, or is the
subject of a pending disciplinary action. The monitor/eupervisor
must be actively engaged in the same or similar specialty area
unless otherwise provided by the Board or Committee and be
practicing within a reasonable distance of the Respondent's

practice, a distance of no more than twenty [20} miles unless

16

otherwise specifically provided for in the censent agreement. The

Board or Committee may else reject any proposed monitor/supervisor

for good cause shown.

 

C. MECHANISM FOR APPROVAL OF
MONITORgSUPERVISOm
{1). TEMPORARY APPROVAL. The Board

confers authority on the Chairman of the Board‘s Probation
Committee to temporarily approve Respondent's monitor/supervisor.

To obtain this temporary approval, Respondent shall submit to the
Chairman of the Probation Committee the name and curriculum vitae
of the proposed monitor/eupervisor at the time this agreement is
considered by the Board. once a Final Order adapting this
Agreement is filed, Respondent shall not practice medicine without
an approved monitor/superviaor. Temporary approval shall only
remain in effect until the next meeting of the Probation
Committee.

[2). FORMAL APPROVAL. Respondent shall
have the monitor/supervisor' with him at his first probation
appearance before the Probation Committee. Prior to consideration
of the monitor/supervisor by the Committee, the Respondent shall
provide to the nmnitor/supervisor a copy of the Administrative

Complaint and Final Order in this case. Respondent shall submit a

17

current curriculum vitae and a description of current practice
from the proposed monitor/supervisor to the Board office no later
than fourteen days before the Respcndent's first scheduled
probation appearance. Respondent's monitor/supervisor shall also
appear‘ before the Probation Committee at such other' times as
directed by the Committee. It shall be Respondent's
responsibility to ensure that the appearance of his
monitor/euperviser as directed. Failure of the monitor/eupervisor
to appear a5 directed shall constitute a violation of the terms of

this Stipulation and shall subject the Respondent to disciplinary

action.

(1. CHANGE IN MONITOR/SUPERVISOR. In the
event that Respondent's monitor/supervisor is unable or unwilling
to fulfill his responsibilities as a monitor/supervisor as
described above, then the Respondent shall immediately advise the
Board of this fact. Respondent shall immediately submit to the
Chairman of the Board's Probation Committee the name of a
temporary monitor/eupervisor for consideration. Respondent shall
not practice pending approval of this temporary monitor/supervisor
by the Chairman of the Probation Committee. Furthermore.
Respondent shall make arrangements with his temporary

monitor/supervisor to appear before the Probation Committee at its

18

STATE OF FLORIDA _ .. :
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION '

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE
ADMINISTRATION,

Petitioner,

AHCA CASE NOS. 90-06999
91-09210

MARK A- LAPORTA. M.D.

Respondent.
/

 

CONSENT AGREEMENT
Mark A, Laporta, M.D., referred to as the “Respondent," and
the Agency for Health Care Adminiatration, referred ta as
”Agency,” stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and to
the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to
as “Board,“ incorporating the Stipulated Facts and stipulated
Disposition in this matter.
EILEQL§IED_EEEE§
1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed
physician in the State of Florida having been issued license

number ME 0041885.

next regularly scheduled meeting for consideration of the
monitor/supervieor by the Committee. Respondent shall only
practice under the auspices of the temporary monitor/supervisor
[approved by the Chairman) until the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Probation Committee whereat the issue of the
Committee's approval of the Respondent's new nmnitor/eupervieor
shall be addreseed.
3. CONTINUITY OF PRACTICE
a. TOLLING PROVISIONS. In the event the

Respondent leaves the State of Florida for a period of thirty days
or more or otherwise does not engage in the active practice of
medicine in the State of Florida, then certain provisions of
Respondent's probation {and only those provisions of the
probation} shall be tolled as enumerated below and shall remain in
a tolled status until Respondent returns to active practice in the
State of Florida:

{1). The time period of probation shall
be tolled.

(2}. The provisions regarding
supervision whether direct or indirect by another physician, and

required reports from the monitor/supervisor shall be tolled.

19

{3)‘ The provisions regarding
preparation of investigative reports detailing compliance with

this Stipulation shall be tolled.

(4]. Any provisions regarding community
service Shall be tolled.
b. ACTIVE PRACTICE. In the event that

Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine for a period of
one year or more, the Probation Committee may require Respondent
to appear‘ before the Probation Committee and demonstrate his
ability to practice medicine with skill and safety to patients
prior to resuming the practice of medicine in this State.

20

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

PETITIONER,

v3. CASE NO. 9006999

MARK A. LAPORTA, H.D.

RESPONDENT.
I
.________1_________.____

ADMINISZEAEIEE COEPLAIHI

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Frcfeaaional
Regulation, hereinafte} referred to as "Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against

Mark LaPorta, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent," and
alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapte} 453, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material heretb
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0041335. Respondent's last known addresa is 1040
?lst Street, Miami, Florida 33141.

3. On or about May 6, 1989, Patient #1, a seventy—five (75)
year old female, presented the Emergency Room (ER) at Cedars

aedical Center subsequent to suffering a seizure.

4.

Patient {1 presented to the ER with a history or

diabetes, coronary artery disease and left

cerebrovascular accident.

hemispheric

5. The ER physician treated Patient #1 with Dilantin and

Valium to control the seizures.

6.

(?), Florida Statutés.

7. Valium 13 a legend drug as defined by Seation £65.00:

(7), Florida statutes, and contains diazepam, a Schedule Iv

controlled substance listed in Chapter 893. Florida Statutes.

3. ER examination revealed that Patient #1 suffered from

congestive heart failﬁra which was treated with intravenous [IV]

Lasix.

9. Laaix is a legend drug as defined by Section 465.003 (?),
Florida Statutes.
10. Respondent, who was covering for Patient [1's treating

physician, subsequently admitted Patient #1 to Cedars Medical

r

Center at or about six (5} p.m.

11. At the time of the admission Patient #1 suffered from an
axillary temperature of 102.3 degrees, nu urine output, labored
breathing, and a Blood Urea Nitrogen (BUN) of twenty-one (21].

12. Respondent failed to examine Patient #1 at the time of

admission and ordered treatment based on verbal reports from the

ER.

13. Respondent ordered continuation of Dilantin far the

seizuree; cultures and antibiotic coverage for the high axillary

fever; and low level IV fluids for low urine output.

14._ On or about May 7, 1939, Respondent examined Patient [1

at approximately 5:30 a.m., fourteen (14) hours subsequent to

Patient {1's admission.

15. Given Patient {1's critical condition, a similar prudent
physician would hahe examined Patient I1 upon admission and
admitted her to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for observation.

16. Respondent failed to examine Patient I1 when she

presented to the ER with congestive heart failure, seizures and

renal failure.

1?. Respondent failed to obtain appropriate renal

consultation and a renal ultrasound to evaluate the lack of Patient

{1'5 urine output.

13. Respondent failed to ascertain Patient {1's baseline
mental status.

19. Patient fl's condition and medical histori granted for a
more aggressive plan of treatment and the transfer of Patient {1 to

the ICU.

20. On or about May 9, 1939, Patient #1 suffered a cardiac
arrest and expired.

21. Respondent's medical records do not justify his course of
treatment of Patient #1 in that they fail to record Patient {1's

baseline condition, vital signs, orientation and pulmonary

examination.

22. Respondent falsely indicated in Patient {1's admission
note that he examined Patient [1 on or about Kay 6, 1989, when in
fact he did not sea Patient #1 until on or about May ?, 1989.

m

23. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1}

through twenty-two (22), as if fully set forth herein this Count

One.

24. Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or

the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances in that ﬁespondent failed to examine Patient #1 until
fourteen (14) hours after her admission; failed. to recognize
Patient {1's critical condition; failed to examine, admit and
transfer Patient #1 to the ICU; failed to obtain appropriate renal
consultation; and failed to ascertain Patient {1'5 baseline mental
status.

25. Based on the foregoing, Respondent vldlated Section
458.331 (1) (t), Florida statutes, gross or repeated malpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and

circumstances.

QQHEI_IHQ

26. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1]

through twenty-two (22) and twanty—four {24), as if fully set forth

herein this Count Two.

2?. Respondent is guilty of failing to keep written medical

records justifying the course or treatment of the patient,

including, but not‘ limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results in that Respondent dictated a note timed to

the previous evening, failed to record Patient fl’s renal

condition, vital signs, orientation and pulmonary examination.

23. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section

458.331 (1) (m), Floriéa Statutes, failing to keep written medical

records justifying the course of treatment 0f ‘ths patient,

including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination

results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or

administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations.
£01m: THREE

29. Petitioner realleges and incorporates aha incorporates
paragraphs one (1) through twenty-two (22). twenty~four {2i} and
twenty—seven (27), as if fully Set forth herein this Count Three.

30. Re5pondent is guilty of making or filing a report which
the licenses knows to be false, intentionally or negligently
failing to file a report or record required by state or federal law
in that on or about May 7, 1939, Respondent dictated an admisaion

note for Patient {1 timed intentionally and inaccurately to reflect

31. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section

453.331 {1} (h) , Florida Statutes, making or filing a report which

the licensee knows to be false, intentionally or negligently

another person to do 50. Such reports or records shall include

only those which are signed in the capacity as a licensed

physician.
QOUNE FOQB

32. Petitioner r‘ealleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twentyvtwo (22], twenty—four (24}, twenty—five (25) and
thirty (30), as if fully set forth herein this Count Four.

33. Respondent is guilt},r of making deceptive, untrue, or
fraudulent representations in or related to the practice of
medicine or employing a trick or scheme in the practice of medicine
in that Respondent falsely indicated in Patient {1's Iachsnisssion note
that he had seen Patient #1 upon her admission when in fact
Respondent did not see Patient {1 until the following day.

34. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
453.331 (1] (1:), Florida Statutes, making deceptive. untrue, or
fraudulent representations in or related to the practice of
medicine or employing a trick or scheme in the practice of

medicine.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board
of Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board.

deems appropr iate .

   
   

SIGNED this 7 day of , 1993.

 
 
 

G arson,
at Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.
Chief Medical Attorney
Department of Professional Regulation

       

1940 North Honroe Street F l L E D
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750

Eaﬁgz Bar ”83643 Department of Professional REEUIBHD"
pep: December 10, 1992 DEPUTY CLERK
Murray, Rodriguez and Slade CLERK (4??) _'k \f 1’ {1. ._

DATE ﬁl;f»q—t_

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

'Dépmm 6F Bus'iNﬁ'ss AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION _ .-.
PETITIDNER

vs: _ , ., . . case no. 9109210

  

ma. manni- 11.11.11 ' ..

 

RESPONDENT .- ' . ' .. L." _ -~.
. _ I .2.. . ‘ .,__,
mu 5 IVE I

 

 

COMES” NOW the Petitigner, Department of Enginess and

_ Ptofessionéiﬁﬁggulation, hEreinafter referred to as_“Pettttbner,"

and files: this Administrative Complaint before the Beard of

Medicine against Mark A; LaPorta, H.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent,“ and alleges:

1. Pgtitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the

practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.165, Florida statutes;

;_ Chapter 455 Florida statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

a

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto a
‘v'-h-;L-.L;.. -

_.' _‘__.—.. 3‘". '.‘f

in the State of Florida,

 
      

having been 1ssued

       

-.1. - 8,... .3
_ twenty—seven

. . ._. . __ ,. - ._ ~*qu .- “’W‘éd‘??? ._..
(2?) year old femalé, presented to the North Shore Medical Center

_emergency room with complaints 0-: severe diabetic ketoacidosis,

Mn"- .1..:‘ -~-'-:—'- _ .»-.r-'_.n.,;_.--..La

    

which is a life threatening metabolic acidosis or accumulation of

2: Respandent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Agency' and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules enacted
pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative
Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent admits the allegations of fact contained in
the Administrative Complaint for purposes of these preceedings
only.

ST I PULATEI'J CONCLUS IONS OF LAW

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, he i5 subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and
458, Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Agency and the
Board _

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint. if proven, would constitute violations
of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative
Complaint.

3. Respondent admits that the stipulated.disposition in this

case is fair, appropriate and acceptable to Respondent.

abnormal acids in the body that can affect the heart, lungs,

kidneys, and brain.

4. Respondent was Patient A.B.‘s attending physician from the
time of her admiesion to the time of her death on or about the

following day.

5. Respondent did not personally examine Patient A.B. upon
her admission on or about May 24, 1991, or during the course of

treatment until after her death on or about Hay 25,'1991.

6. -Respondent did not perforh the appropriate physical
examination of Patient A.B. within an appropriate time after

admission on or about May 25, 1991.

7. Respbndent falself documented an admissiqn note dEtEd'Hay
24, 1991, indicating his presence upon Patient A.B.'s admission at

approximately six in the morning {E:OOam).
8. Respondent issued orders for Patient A.B.’s care by

telephone several times during the patient's treatment at the

hospital.

9. Clinical findings of Patient 1.3.‘5 candition were based

on the following: metabolic acidosis or abnormal acid

accumulation, very high sugar in the 400+ Irange, moderate degree of

15- --. 5; .-;,1.

congestive heart fa 11ure or fluid in the 1ungs, anI-elevated_wh1te

_. F

   
  
   

t -1eft sh1ft and. delirium. :

 

ce11- count

   

‘xrrﬁ .n,"'.'

,H9.__ Respondent's course of treatment Ifor- Patient A.B.1ncluded

"v" .. ‘Iﬁﬂk: r .'z'*-_ u_.‘- -_—.-.-. -1... . .1 -_. u-.. .a. ...- .-... ’w-wm-N-vxwa— __
'“sJ

examination of blood work complete blood count, electrolytes,

 

blood suggf;:biood cu1tures,_ufina1ysis, chest x—raye, blood gases,

 

lactate acid levels, thyroid blood tests, cortisol level, sed rate,
magnesium level, and brain scans.
10. Patient A.B. remained confused and uncooperative
throughout the hospital stay deépiteﬂrelceiving said treatment.
11. Respondent did not order the appropriate frEquency of
blood Isugar levels for Patient A. B. to closely follow the patient's
response to treatment. I

12_ Respondent did not order the appropriate frequency of
oblood gases analysis for Patient A. B considering the presence of
metabolic acidosis.

_ 13. Respondent did not order the appropriate EKG on Patient
A.IB.'s admission considerirfq the presence of diabetes and‘d'ihbetic
Iketoacidosis .

14. Respondent did nut order the proper and eppropriate
amounts of insulin for Patient 31.3. to correct the hyperglycemia or
high sugar which contributed to the patient's demise.

15. Respondent did not order the appropriate or adequate

amounts of IV fluids for Patient A. B. to rapidly correct the

metabolic acidosis .

    

' ' I '17. Respendent did‘not make the proper' attempts to correct'
1*???” " -"- '9‘ 3‘ ' .":’!‘"- *ﬁﬁ‘W—gr-mer uﬂg‘m-(ﬁ R83:+- -_-A- .-_-n. ma» adwwe- —Jm.- ““91 ". -}‘-.-¢_-_

:.‘.:_ _.

Patient :1. B. '5 metabolic al::1'.c!.osis,'r including, but not' limited to,

using bigarbﬁgateﬁqrﬁ Ial_kha_1i__‘ find time1y_

 

n

intubation of the patient

    

 

18. Respondent did not make the appropriate timely referrals
tor Patient 3.8., including, but not limited to, an intensive care
specialist, neurologist, a diabetic expert or an endocrinologist,
to properly assess the patient's condition.

19. On or about May 25, 1991, approximately twent§1four (24)
hours after initial admission, Patient LB. suffered cardiac arrest
and died.

' 20. Respondgnt documented Patient A.B.'s disqhaggg Eﬁmmary
approximately one (1) month after the patient’s déath, $1 51 aboué

June 24, 1991. ‘

21. Respondent did not make a timely documentation in Patient

A.B.'s medical records regarding her discharge notes. . *““

QQHEE_QE§

22. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

through twenty*one (21) as if fully set forth herein this Count

One .

23. Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or

the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,

and treatment wﬁich is recognized by a reasonably prudant similar

phyéician as being acceptable under similar conditions and

'1» 1..

.I.'-'- ' '1"..'._

Clrcumstances,*1n that Respondent_ failed to adequat:a1y assess

     

 

iii Pat ient A. B. ’5 condition; _failed Ito physically examine Patient A. B.
-:'- _. . . - ._ - .

upon admission or before her death; and failed to fol ow the
4F:~'- d. wa—yw- W - ﬁrmwhyiyg: uawﬂ h. x_nn Many! _._-.;-—5~.- _o'—. v.

- --v-— --'-n:mer-r¢-r -
appropriate course of treatment for Patient A.B.. '

24. Based on the forego1ng, Respondent violated- Section
‘ u . -..__~_.-_~§m_ 34m. _, _

--.—.-:_L;-. --. -_

 

458.331(1}[

    

lorida Statutes, and is guilty of 9:955 or repeated

 

  

malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that level of
care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably

prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances.
Count Two

25. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty-one [21) and twenty-three (23) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two. _ a _ '

26. Respondent is guilty of failing to keep written medical
records ‘justifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results} recards of drugs prescribed, dispéﬁsed, or
administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalization, in
that Respondent documented an inadequate handwritten admission note
for Patient 3.3.; and failed to document a timely discharge summary
for Patient A.B..

27. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(mJ, Florida Statutes, and is guilty of failing to keep
written medical recotds justifying the course of treatment of the
patient, including, but not limited to, patient -histories;

examination results; test results; records_of drugs prescribed,

dispensed, or administered; and reports of consultations and

.1.

hospitalization.

 

wmﬁm ﬂaw

on t roe

23. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through tuenty-one (21], twenty-three {23), and twenty-six (26} as
if fully set forth herein this Count Three. _

29. Respondent is guilty of making deceptive, untrue, or
fraudulent representations in or related to the practice of
medicine or employing a trick or scheme in the practice of
medicine, in that Respondent falsely documented an admissiori note
dated IHay 24, 1991, indicating his presence upon Patient A.B.'s
admission at: approximately six in the morning (6:00am) , and falsely
documented in the discharge summary his presence and examination of
Patient LB. in the morning of May 24, 1991. """

30. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.3310.) 0:} , Florida Statutes, and is guilty of making deceptive,
untrue, or fraudulent representations in or related to the practice
of medicine or employing a trick or scheme in the practice of
medicine.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respestfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent's practicg, impasition of an
administrative fine. issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondergtpn probation, andfor any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate .

WV”:ﬁfﬁgﬁ‘mwmw”W“$11“?“’ﬁ'ﬂe'!‘ﬁn‘ﬁFBQﬂMEWﬁgwqpﬁcewriW{I p1,,” ‘_

c

SIGNED this 2L? day of (3:204E2lemiﬁ_2 1993.

l'

George Stuart ecretary

       
  

cPherson, fir.
ief Kedical Attorney

   

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTHENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Chief Medical Attorney

Department of Business and Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee,_Florida 32399—0750

Florida Bar {733643

RPCfmry
PCP: October 21, 1993
Murray, Slade, and Yarn F ‘ L E D .
- d Bushes: and ham Reguhhﬂ
mpmm WW _.....,._I .

. ﬂircmi

 

STIPULATED DISPOSITION
1. FUTURE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the future
violate Chapters 455‘ 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto. Prior to signing this agreement,
the Respondent read Chapters 455, 458 and 393 and the Rules of the
Board of Medicine, at Section 59R, Florida Administrative“

2. FINE. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in

 

the amount of $3,000.00 (three thousand hundred) against the
Keepandent. The fine shall be paid by the Respondent to the Board
of Medicine within one year of its imposition by Final Order of
the Board. THE RESPONDENT ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE TIMELY PAYMENT OF
THE FINE IS HIS LEGAL OBLIGATION AND RESPONSIBILITY AND THE
RESPONDENT AGREES TO CEASE PRACTICING MEDICINE IF THE FINE IS NOT
PAID AS AGREED TO IN THIS AGREEMENT, SPECIFICALLY: IF THE
RESPONDENT HAS NOT RECEIVED WRITTEN CONFIRMATION THAT THE FULL
AMOUNT OF THE FINE HAS BEEN RECEIVED BY THE BOARD OFFICE ONE YEAR
OF THE FILING OF THE FINAL ORDER OF THE BOARD ADOPTING THIS
CONSENT AGREEMENT, THE RESPONDENT AGREES TO CEASE PRACTICE UNTIL
SUCH WRITTEN CONFIRMATION IS RECEIVED BY THE RESPONDENT FROM THE
BOARD.

3. EEPRIMAND. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand

from the Board of Medicine.

4'. PROBATION. Respondent's license to practice medicine
shall be placed on probation for a period of eighteen {15) months.
The purpose of probation is not to prevent the Respondent from
practicing medicine. Rather, probation is a supervised
educational experience designelﬁ by the Board to make the
Keepandent aware of certain obligations to his patients and the
profession and to insure Respondent's continued compliance with
the high standards of the profession through interaction with
another phyeician in the appropriate field of expertise. To this
end, during the period of probation, Respondent shall comply with
the following obligations and requirements:
A. RESTRICTIONS DURING PROBATION. During the period
of probation, Respondent's license shall be restricted as follows:
i. INDIRECT SUPERVISION. Respondent shall
practice only under the indirect supervision of a Board-apprcved
physician, hereinafter referred to as the "monitor." In this
regard, Respondent shall allow the monitor access to Respondent's
medical records, calendar, patient logs or other documents
necessary for the monitor to supervise Respondent as detailed

below.

B. OBLIGATIONS/REOUEEMENTS OF PROBATION. During the
period of probation. Respondent shall comply with the following
obligations and requirements:

i. During the period of Probation the Respondent
agrees that, upon notification to the Respondent to appear at the
next Probation Committee meeting and be heard, upon a finding by
the Probation Committee that the Respondent failed to comply with
egg of the terms of this agreement, Respondent agrees to cease
practicing medicine until he demonstrates to the Committee that he
is in compliance with the terms of probation.

ii. Respondent shall appear before the Probation
Committee of the Board of Medicine at the first Committee meeting
after probation commences, at the last meeting of the Committee
preceding scheduled termination of the probation, and at such
other times as requested by the Committee. Respondent shall be
noticed by the Board staff of the date, time and place of the
Committee meeting whereat Respondent's appearance is required.
Failure of Respondent to appear as requested or directed shall be
considered a violation of the terms of this Agreement, and shall
Subject the Respondent to disciplinary action.

iii. CONTINUING MEDICAL. EDUCATION. Respondent

shall attend twenty [20} hours of Category I Continuing Medical

Education courses in the area of Risk Management and Record
Keeping. RESPOHdEHt shall submit a written plan to the Chairman of
the Probation Committee for course approval prior to the
completion of said courses. In addition, Respondent shall submit
documentation of completion of these courses in his required
reports. These hours shall be in addition to those houre required
for renewal of licensure. Unless otherwise approved by the Board
or the Chairman of the Probation Committee, said courses shall
consist of a formal live lecture format.

iv. Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that
the monitor submits all required raports.

C. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE MONITORING PHYSICIAN, The
Monitor shall:

1. Review 25 percent of Respondent's active patient
records at least once a month, for the purpose of ascertaining the
accuracy of Respondent's diagnoses and the appropriateness of his
treatment of patients.

ii. Submit reports on a quarterly/semiannual basis, in
affidavit form, which shall include:

a} A brief statement of why Respondent is on

probation.

b] A description of Respondent's practice
[type and composition}‘

:1 A statement addressing Respondent's
compliance with the terms of probation.

d] A brief description of the monitor's
relationship with the Respondent.

e] A Etatement advising the Board of any
problems which have arisen.

f} A summary of the dates the monitor went
to Respondent's Office, the number of records reviewed, and the
overall quality Of the records reviewed.

iii. Maintain contact with the Respondent on a
frequency oi at least once per month. In the event that the
monitor is not timely contacted by Respondent, then the monitor
shall immediately report this fact in writing to the Board.

iv. Report immediately to the Board any
violations by the Respondent of Chapters 455 or 458, Florida
Statutes, and the rules promulgated thereto.

v. Respondent's monitor shall appear before the
Probation Committee at the first meeting of said committee
following commencement of the probation, and at such other times

as directed by the Committee. It shall be Respondent's

responeibility to ensure the appearance of his monitor to appear
as requested or directed. If the approved monitor faile to appear
as requested or directed by the Probation Committee, the
Respondent shall immediately cease practicing medicine until such
time as the approved monitor or alternate monitor appears before
the Probation Committee.

D. REPORTS FROM RESPONDENT. The Respondent Shall
submit quarterly reports, in affidavit form, the contents of which
may be further specified by the Board, but which shall include:

i. A brief statement of why Respondent is on
probation.

ii. A description of practice location.

iii. A description of current practice {type and
composition}.

iv‘ A brief statement of compliance with
probationary terms.

v. A description of the relationship with
monitoring physician.

vi. A statement advising the Board of any
problems which have arisen.

vii. A statement addressing compliance with any

restrictions or requirements imposed.

