. PL‘7
' .HfFILED _ 6’

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULQIPI fﬁ
BOARD OF MEDICINE

 

j/ .3

/' 'JVI,K,- _____._r--‘
DEPARTI‘IENT OF PROFESSIONAL __ L"
REGULATION, C—LL:{K _‘q_—”—k
\
Petitioner, DA1E ______:_é;E£:£jlﬁ____
v. DPR CASE NUMBER: 90-04429

LICENSE NUMBER: HE 0049802
FILER REYES GONZALEZ, H.D.,

Respondent.
/

FINBL ORQBR

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant

 

to Section 120.5?(3), Florida Statutes, on September 20,‘1991. in
Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in
the above-styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent
Agreement, the documents submitted in support thereof, the
arguments of the parties, and being otherwise advised in the
premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall

adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the

Consent Agreement.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Department.

BONE AND ORDERED this 2er day ﬁc-Fgg-If'mm be 1/ , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

{IN ' _,’ —
ZACHARI . ESCHERIAH, H.D.

CHAIRMAN

 

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE -
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Pilar Reyes Gonzalez.

and

M.D., 2912~A 17th Street, St. Cloud, Florida 34769,;W. Ford Duane,
Esquire, 20 North Eola Drive, Orlando, Florida 32801-1635 and by
interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical
Attorney, Department of Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre,

1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0?92, at or

before 5:00 P.M., this 2 “'4 M” day of Eéwpfﬂxky , 1991.

.~

  
     

   

001203531: J . «ﬁi' RCLOTH

Executive Director

.w o “

.17. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated
Section 458.331{l}[m), Florida Statutes, in that RespondenL
failed to keep written medical records justifying the course of
treatmenL of the patient, including, but not limited to patient
histories, examination results, test results; records of drugs
prescribed, dispensed, or administered; and reports of
consultations and hospitalizations.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter aﬁ Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondeﬁt‘s license,
restrictien of the Respondent‘s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this [Elf day of )Zﬂﬁégg ,. 1990.

Larry Go alez, Secretary

  

 

By' ephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT :

Larry G. McPherson
Senior Attorney

Florida Bar No. ?88643 F I L E [)
?ggg-Nof pIOEES51onal REQU1ath“ Cbmdmﬂﬂnfﬂnmﬁbnmﬁ if

. Monroe Street, Ste. 60 AGEN eguamn
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0?92 CYCLERK

(904) 433-0052

CJR/bd/Lc: 5} aye”;
PCP: December 14, 1990

 

K t' CLERK

a Lms

Wells ffl‘. ’\
Vitale DATE ‘ b _ '

0000i}

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATiON

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

V. DORE CASE NO. 91-0618

DPR CASE NO. 90-D4i29
PXLAR GONZALEZ, M.D.,

Respondent.

1
CONSENT AGREEMENLI

 

PILAR.GONZALEZ, M.D., referred to as the "Respondent“, and she
Department of Professional Regulation, referred to as "Department",
stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and to the entry of
a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as "Board",
incorporating the stipulated Facts and stipulated Disposition in
this matter.

STIPULATED FACTS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed
physician in the state of Florida having been issued license number
ME 0049802.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 453, Florida Statutes, and the rules enacted
pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative
Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of

fact contained in the Administrativa Complaint.

800003

STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. ResPOhdent admits that, in her capacity as a licensed
physician, she is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and
458, Florida statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department and
the Board.
2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute violations

of Chapter 458, Florida statutes, as alleged in the Administrative

Complaint.
STIPULATED DI§POSITION -
1. FUTURE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the future

violate Chapters 455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto.

2. Elﬁgé The Board shall impose an administrative fine in
the amount of $2,000.00 against the Re5pondent. The fine shall be
paid by the Respondent to the Executive Director of the Board
within 30 days cf its imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. LETTER OF CONCERN. The Respondent shall receive a Letter
of Concern from the Board of Medicine.

4. Respondent shall completed 10 hours in risk management
within one year of the imposition of the Final Order by the Board.

4. Respondent shall write an article suitable for publication
in a newsletter. The topic of the article will concern the
necessity of patient identification prior to initiation of a
surgical procedure. The article will be completed and presented
to the Board for approval within one year of the impositinn of the

Final Order of the Board.

000001:

5. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject
to the approval of the Board and the Department. In this regarding
the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs) shall
have no force and effect unlese a Final Order is entered
incorporating the terms of this Agreement, by the Board.

6. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting
of the Board where this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in
conjunction with the consideration of this Agreement by the Board,
shall respond to questions under oath from the Board, Board staff
or Department Staff. —

7. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by the Respondent may be used as
direct evidence againet the Respondent in any proceeding; however,
such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment
purposes.

8. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this
joint Agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will
in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board and/or the
Department against the Respondent for acts or omissions not
specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as
Exhibit "A" herein.

9. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps, and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Agreement.

10. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, the parties

000005

hereby agree that each party will beat his own attorney's fees and
costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's fees or costs
from the Department in connection with this matter.

11. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all invastiqative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with csnsideration of the
Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted. by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by
the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or
any of its members from further participation, consideration or

resolution of these proceedings.

 

Pilar Gonzalez , M. D.

before me this umd day

of A_ugwaf , 1991. .
timﬁégiéﬂﬂ@___ﬁ

NOTARY PUBLIC

  

My Commission Expires: 6'4'9Lf

000006

- APPROVED this 29’ day Of , 1991.

George Stuart

Secretaj}:7

r Mﬂ

By: Larry G. McPhersonr Jr.
Ch ef Attorney

Med ica 1 Sect ion
RAG:MCP:alg

00-3007

.77 0-2“-

STRTE OF FLOR} DA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

CASE NO. 90-004429
V .

PILAR REYES GONZALES, M.D.,

Respondent.
I‘

f

 

ADELEISIEAILEE_CQMRLAIHI

COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as “Petitioner,“ and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine

against PLLAR REYES GONZALES, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
“Respondent,“ and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the State agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20430, Florida
Statutes, Chapter 455. Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been
issued license number ME 0049802. Respondent's last known
address is 2912 - l?th Street, Saint Cloud, Florida, 34?69—6018.

3. On or about February 21, 1990, Respondent scheduled
Lhe circumcisiOn of one [1) of two {2] nine pound infants under

Respondent's care at Humane Hospital - Kissimmee.

000008

 

4. On or about February 21, 1990, the nurse responsible
for prepping the infant for surgery took Patient #1 from the
nursery tn the "circ room“, and prepared him for surgery.

5. Respondent failed to maintain any written medical
records dictating that a circumcision be performed on Patient #1-
6. Patient #1 was neither scheduled nor was to be
circumcised. The procedure was supposed to be done on

Respondent's other male infant patient.

7. When Respondent arrived to effect the procedure,
Patient #1 had already been prepped, and Respondent pétformed the
Circumcision on Patient #1-

8. On or about May 4, 1990, in an interview, Reapondent
stated that the nurse responsible for prepping the infant had
seventeen (17) years experience, and that Respondent had not
given a second thought to any possibility of an error.

CQHHI_QHE

9- Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
{1} through eight (8). as if fully set forth herein this Count
One.

10. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that level
of care, skill, and treatment which a reasonably prudent similar
physician recognizes a5 acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances in that Respondent performed a circumcision 0n the

wrong patient.

000009

.35“!

_11. Based on the preceding allegations, Reapondent
violated Section 458.331{t), Florida Statutes, in that Respondent
is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice of the failure to
practice medicine with that level of care, skill, and treatment
which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physician as
_bEinq aCCEptable under similar CénditiOns and circumstances.

CQUHI_EHQ

12. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs One
[1) through eight (81 and ten (10}, as if fully set forth herein
this Count Two. '

13. Respandent performed professional services which have
not been duly authorized by the patient, or client, or his legal
representative in that Respondent performed a circumcision on
Patient #1, when it was suppose to be done on another patient.

14. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331‘p}, Florida Statutes, in that Respondent
performed professional services which have not been duly
authorized by the patient 0: client. or his legal representative.

CQﬂﬂ2_lﬁEEE

15. Petitinner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
{1} through eight (8), ten {10), and thirteen (1]), as if fully
set forth herein this Count Three.

16. Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of the patient when Respondent

failed to maintain medical reacrds dictating that a circumcision

be performed on Patient #1.

0000M]

