FILED

Department 0: Proiesmunat Reguiation
AGENCY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REQUEST bi .
BOARD OF MEDICI 0%
M

CLERK

 

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL ,

REGULATION, DATE - , —Q
Petitioner,

~vs- DPR CASE NUMBER: 9006902

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0039228
TOMAS E. ROGES, M.D.,

Respondent.
______~___________________________/
FINAL ORDER

THIS CAUSE came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.57(2), Florida Statutes, on November 30,
1990, in Kissimmee, Florida, for consideration of the
Administrative Complaint (attached hereto as Exhibit A) in the
above—styled cause. At the heariné, Petitioner was represented
by Stephanie A. Daniel, Attorney at Law; Respondent was present
and testified at the hearing. The facts are not in dispute.

Upon consideration, it is ORDERED:

1. The allegations of fact set forth in the Administrative
Complaint are approved and adopted and incorporated herein by
reference as the findings of fact by the Board.

2. The conclusions of law alleged and set forth in the
Administrative Complaint are approved and adopted and
incorporated herein by reference as the conclusions of law by the
Board.

3. The violations set forth warrant disciplinary action by

the Board.i THEREFORE,

f

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED:

1. Respondent shall pay an administrative fine in the
amount of $500 to the Executive Director within 30 days of the
date this Final Order is filed.

2. Within six months of the filing of the Final Order,
Respondent shall submit documentation to demonstrate his
compliance with all of the continuing education requirements for
the 1986-1987 and 1988-1989 licensing bienniums. Such
documentation shall consist of certified copies of the receipts,
vouchers, certificates, or other papers, such as the thsician's
I recognition awards issued by the American Medical Association, as
may be necessary to document completion of the continuing
education. In the event that Respondent fails to timely document
compliance with all of the continuing education requirements for
the relevant time periods, Respondent‘s license to practice
medicine shall be suspended until such time as documentation of
compliance is received by the Board.

3. Within six months of the filing of the Final Order,
Respondent shall attend 5 hours ofICategory I Continuing Medical
Education courses in the area of risk management. Respondent
shall submit a written plan to the Chairman of the Probationer‘s
Committee for approval prior to the completion of said continuing
education hours. The Board confers authority on the Chairman of
the Probationer‘s Committee to approve or disapprove said
continuing education courses. In addition, Respondent shall
submit documentation (in the form of certified copies of

?

receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other papers, such as the
I

20. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331(1)(a), Florida Statutes, attempting to
obtain, obtaining, or renewing a chense to practice medicine by
bribery, by fraudulent misrepresentations, or through an errcr of
the department or the board.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Orde: imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, impositiot of an

administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this (zzqﬁj‘aay of (Zugﬂ , 1990.

Larry Gonzalez, Secretary

   

Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT: F I L E E)
Larry G. McPherson Deaanment of ProfessionalResuiaf-im
Senior Attorney AGENCYCLERK

Florida Bar No. 788643

Dept. of Professional Regulation 25’
1940 N. Monroe Street, Ste. 60 z__—-

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792

 

 

(9 ) 488-0062 MiPK

BG/ecs i DATE E—QQ-QO
d cs
7/13/90

physician's recognition awards issued by the American Medical
Association, as may be necessary to document completion of the
continuing education) of completioq of these continuing medical
education courses within six months of the entry of the Final
Order in this matter. These hours shall be in addition to those
hours required for renewal of licehsure. Unless otherwise
approved by the Board or the Chairman of the Probationer's
Committee, said continuing education courses shall consist of a
formal live lecture format. In the event that Respbndent fails
to timely document completion of the aforesaid courses,
Respondent's license to practice medicine shall be suspended
until such time as documentation of compliance is received by the
Board.

4. Prior to renewing the license at the end of the 1990—
1991 biennium, Respondent shall be required to document
compliance with the continuing education requirements for that
period. Such documentation shall consist of certified copies of
the receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other papers, such as
the physician's recognition awards issued by the American Medical
Association, as may be necessary to document completion of the
continuing education.

5. Within one year of the date of this Final Order or of
beginning the practice of medicine in Florida, whichever is
later, Respondent must give two speeches to groups of physicians
cocnerning the importance of providing only truthful and accurate
information in order to renew one's license and submit
satisfactoly documenation of said speeches to the Probation
Committee of the Board for teview and approval.

-3 -

This order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department of Professional Regulation.

DONE AND ORDERED this “2% day of , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDICIN

 

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO JUDICIAL REVIEW

A PARTY WHO IS ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THIS FINAL ORDER IS ENTITLED
. TO JUDICIAL REVIEW PURSUANT TO SECTION 120.68, FLORIDA STATUTES.
REVIEW PROCEEDINGS ARE GOVERNED BY THE FLORIDA RULES OF APPELLATE
PROCEDURE. SUCH PROCEEDINGS ARE COMMENCED BY FILING ONE COPY OF
A NOTICE OF APPEAL WITH THE AGENCY CLERK OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION AND A SECOND COPY, ACCOMPANIED BY FILING
FEES PRESCRIBED BY LAW, WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL, FIRST

DISTRICT, OR WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL IN THE APPELLATE
DISTRICT WHERE THE PARTY RESIDES. THE NOTICE OF APPEAL MUST BE

FILED WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF RENDITION OF THE ORDER TO BE
REVIEWED.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true ahd correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Tomas E.
Roges, M.D., 11461 S.W. 5th Terrace, Miami, Florida 33174-1048,
and by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Attorney
at Law, Department of Professional Regulation, 1940 North Monroe

Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792, at or before 5:00 P.M.,

this a day of M, 1391.

Orders/RogesT 11/30/90

STATE or FtORIDA
DEPARTMENT or PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL '
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
CASE NO. 9006902
V.
THOMAS E. ROGES, M.D.,

Respondent.
________/ ‘
ADMINISIBAII¥E_CQM2LAIHI ‘

COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against Thomas E. Roges, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes, Chapter 455, Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been
issued license number ME 0039228. Respondent's last known
address is 11461 South West 5th Terrace, Miami, Florida 33174-
1048.

3. Pursuant to Section 455.213(5), Florida Statutes, as a
condition of renewal of a license, the Board of Medical Examiners
(Board of #edicine) shall require licensees which it regulates to
periodically demonstrate their professional competency by

completing at least 40 hours of continuing education every two

bu-<./ 1

(2) years, of which at least five (5) hdurs shall concern risk
management. Criteria for, and content of, continuing education
coutses shall be approved by the Bqard.

4. Pursuant to Rule 21M-28.002, Florida Administrative
Code, every physician licensed pursuant to Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, shall be required to complete 40 hours of continuing
medical education approved by the Board in the 24 months
preceding each biennial renewal period as established by the
Department. At least five (5) of such continuing medical
education hours required fer renewal shall concern risk
management.

5. Pursuant to Section 21M-28.002(2)(a), Florida
Administrative Code, risk management means the identification,
investigation, analysis, and evaluation of risks and the
selection of the most advantageous method of correcting,
reducing, or eliminating, identifiable risks.

6. Pursuant to Section 21Mf28.002(3), Florida
Administrative Code, part of the application for renewal shall
include a form on which the licensee shall state that he has
completed the required continuing education. Additionally, the
licensee must retain such receipts, vouchers, certificates, or
other papers, such as physician recognition awards issued by the
AMA, as may be necessary to document completion of the continuing
medical education listed on the renewal form for a period of not

less than four years from the date the course was taken. The

Board wilﬁ randomly audit such numbers of licensees as is

necessary to assure that the continuing education requirements

are met.
7. Pursuant to Rule 21M-28q002(5), Florida Administrative

Code, the following courses have been approved by the Board of

Medicine for continuing education:

a. Organized courses approved for American Medical

Association Category I Continuing Medical Education credits or

accepted for the American Medical Association physician

recognition award.

b. Any postgraduate training program accredited by the
Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education.

c. The following specialty training: American College
0t Emergency Physicians, Category 1; American Academy of Family
Physicians prescribed eredit; and American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists cognates.

8. On or about November 6, 1987, Respondent signed the
following statement which was thereafter submitted as part of the
request to renew his license to practice medicine:

I hereby certify that during the period
January 1, 1986, through December 31, 1987, I
have obtained no fewer than forty (40) hours of
continuing medical education courses which meets
the requirement of Chapter 455.213(5), Florida
Statutes, and Rule 21M-28.002(6) Florida
Administrative Code. I urther certify that at
least five (5) of the £0 ty (40) hours concern
risk management pursuant to Rule 21M-28.002(2)
Florida Administrative Code. I understand that
I must maintain such receipts, vouchers,
certificates, or other papers to document
completion of the CME requirements for a period
of not less than four (4) years from the date the
course was taken.

I affirm that these statements are true and

Correct and recognize that providing false

information may result in a fine, suspension or

revocation of my license as provided in Florida

Statutes 455.2275, 775.082, or 775.084.

9. The aforementioned statement was required as part of

the renewal process for the licensing period from January 1,
1988, through December 31, 1989. Without this statement,

Respondent could not have renewed his license to practice

medicine in Florida.

10. Thereafter, Respondent'successfully renewed his
license to practice medicine in Florida. That renewal was based,
in part, on the aforementioned statement regarding completion of
Continuing Medical Education.

11. Thereafter, Respondent was selected randomly for audit
purposes to verify his continuing medical education for the
period covered in his statement (January 1, 1986 through December
31, 1987).

12. On or about June 6, 1990, an investigator with
Petitioner wrote a letter to Respondent advising that Petitioner
had information that Respondent had failed to submit in response
to the Board's random audit documentation of his continuing
medical education for the 1986-1987 period. Respondent was given
twenty (20) days within which to respond to this matter.

13. On or about June 25, 1990, Respondent submitted
documentation of his continuing medical education for the
relevant time period.

14. A review of Respondent's documentation failed to

i

r
V

reveal the five (5) hours of required risk management credit for

the.re1evant time period.
» CQHNI_QNE

15. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through fourteen (14) as if fully set forth herein this Count
One.

16. Respondent violated a rule of the Board, in the:
Respondent failed to submit documentation verifying the risk
management requirement of continuing medical education to: the
period of January 1, 1985, through December 31, 1987, in response
to the Board's random audit, and thereby failed to comply with

Rule 21M-28.002, Florida Administrative Code.

17. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent

any provision of this chapter, a rule of the board or de;a:::en:‘

in a disciplinary hearing or failing to comply with a lawf:;7v

issued subpoena of the department.
CQHNI_IEQ

18. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs cne
(1) through fourteen (14) and sixteen (16) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

19. Respondent renewed his license by fraudulent
misrepresentation, in that Respondent falsely certified that he
completed the continuing medical education requirements for :he

period fzt?1January 1, 1986 through December 31, 1987.

l
I

y--- .4

