' . .FILEDII

Department of Profess-urml Reguation
AGENCY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGU/_ ON
BOARD OF HEDIC©

 

9L1 f1 _._,__.—-
' CLERK
DEPARTHENT OF PROFESSIONAL L —C_(
REGULATION, DATE ’
Petitioner,
-vs~ DPR CASE NUMBER: 9009230

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0050386
LAWRENCE KIRSCHENBAUH, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL 0mg!

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine {Board}
pursuant to Section 120.57(31, Florida Statutes, on April 13;
1991, in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, for consideration of a
Stipulation {attached hereto as Exhibit A} entered intu between
the parties in the above-styled case. Upon consideration of the
Stipulation, the documents submitted in support thereof, the
arguments of the parties, and being otherwise advised in the
premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulation as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorpnrated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the

Stipulation.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department.

f {C ﬂ_ - J
DONE AND ORDERED this 3) day of ll’r-K' , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

r,’/_ '\|
ﬂﬂjﬂJE “,d_
ZACHARIAH P. ZACHARIAH. M.D.
CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Lawrence
Kirschenbaum, M.D., 19 North Calvin Road, Weston, Connecticut

06853 and by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr.,
Attorney at Law, Department Of Professional Regulation, Northwood

Centre, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—

. f
0792, at or before 5:00 P.M., this {é day of g: £2: .f/ ,

1991.
Wagw

 

Orders/Kirschenbaum

related to the disease, shall satisfy the requirements hf SerLi n
455.2226{2), Florida Statutes.

11. On or about November 3, 1989, Respondent signed 1hm
following statement which was thereafter submitted as part of the

request to renew his license to practice medicine:

I hereby certify that during the pericd
January 1, 1988, through December 31, 1939, I
have obtained no fewer than forty {40; hours of
continuing medical education courses which meets
the requirement of Chapter 455.213{5}, Florida
Statutes, and Rule 21M—28.002[6) Florida
Administrative Code. 1 further certify that at
least five {5) of the forty {40) hours concern
risk management pursuant to Rule 21M-23.002[21.
Florida Administrative Code. I understand that
I must maintain such receipts, vouchers,
certificates. or other papers to document
completion cf the CHE raquirements for a period
of not less than four (4} years from the date the
course was taken.

I hereby certify that during the period
January 1, 1988, through December 31. 1939, I
have csmpleted a maximum of three [3) hours
Category 1, American Medical Association
continuing medical education. which consists of
education on the clinical manifestations,
apidemiolﬂgy, transmission, control, treatment
and prevention Of HIV and AIDS, with emphasis on
appropriate behavior and an attitude change and
legal issues related to the disease, pursuant to
Section 455.2226. Florida Statutes, and Rule 215-
28.005, Florida Administrative Code. I
understand that I must maintain SuCh rEceipts,
vouchers, certificates or other papers to
document completion of this requirement for a
period of not less than four ‘4} years from the
data the course was campleted.

I affirm that these statements are true and
correct and recognize that providing false
information may result in a fine. suspension or
revocation or my license as provided in Florida
Statutes 455.22?5, 115.082, or T15.UE4.

12. The aforementiuned statement was required as part of
the renewal Procaas for the licenSIng period from January 1.

1990, through December 31. 1991. Without this statement,

Respondent could n0: have renewed his license to practice
medicine in Florida.

13. Thereafter, Respondent successfully renewed his
license to practice medicine in Florida. That renewal was Dasei,
in part, On the aforementioned statement regarding completion 0:
Ccntinulng Medical Education {CHE}.

14. Thereafter, Respondent was selected randcmly to: audit
purposes to verify his continuing medical education for the
period covered in his statement (January 1. 1988 through December
31. 1989}. By letter dated May 16, 1990, from the Executive
Director far the Beard of Medicine, Respondent was askad Le
provide such documentation.

15. 0n 0: about June $, 1990, Respondent submitted
documentation of aixty-seven [67] hours of CME credit. However,
Respondent failed to provide proper documentation of five {5]
hours at Risk Management and three (3} hours of HIVIAIDS CHE.

16. Respondent failed to maintain such receipts,
vouchers, certificates, or other papers to document completion of
the required five (5) hours of Risk Management and three i3)
hours of HIV/AIDS CME for the relevant time period, and thereby
failed to submit the required documentatinn {or the Board's

random audit.

Cﬂﬂﬂlgﬂﬂﬂ

1?. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one

[1} through sixteen (16) as if fully set forth herein this Count

One .

18. Respondent violated a rule of the Board. in tha:
Respondent failed to maintain and submit documentation veriiygng
completion of the required five (5) hours of risk management and
three (3) hours of HIv/AIDS CHE {or the period from January 1,
1988, through December 31, 1939. in response to the Board's
random audit, and thereby failed to comply with Rule 21M—28.00:,
Florida Administrative Code.

19‘ Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331{1}fx), Florida Statutes, by Violat;ng
any provision of this chapter, a rule of the board or department,
or a lawful order of the heard of department previously entered
in a disciplinary hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully
issued subpoena of the department.

CQHHI_IEQ

20. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs cne
(1) thxough sixteen [16} and eighteen (18} as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

21. Respondent renewed his license by fraudulent
misrepresentation, in that Respondent falsely certified that he
completed the required five {5) hours of risk management and
three (3) hours of ﬂIV/AIDS CHE for the period from January 1.
1983, through December 31, 1989.

22. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331(11(a), Florida Statutes, attempting to
obtain, obtaining. or renewing a license to practice medicihe by
bribery, by fraudulent misrepresentations, or through an error of

the department or the board.

“HEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board 0f

Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the follcwin

ti.)

penalties: revocation or suspension cf the Respondent < 1;

(1
FE

nae,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition c: an
administrative fine. issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, andjor any other relief that the Bear:

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this 373:1” of W , 1990.

Larry Gonzalez, Secrenary

0941/41?

Stephanie A Dariel
Chief Medical Atterne;

 

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson F I L E E)

Senior Attorney DeDGW-"EM of Pfr‘fess anal Reguramn
Florida Bar No. 788643 AGENCYCQRK
Dept. of Professional Regulation

1940 N. Monroe Street, Ste. 60 5 |_Q
Tallahassee. Florida 32399-0?92
(9047 433-0062 J 25L...

 

ﬁrm:

CJRfmf/tc fr ,. ,1
pcp: December 14, 1990 mm -’ _~.) ' ~ F“
Katims

Hells

Vitale

STATE OF FLORIDA - ‘ '
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS a

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
v. DPR CﬁBE NO.: 90-09230

LAWRENCE KIRSCHENBkUH, H.D.,

 

Respondent.
I
EIIPULATLON
Lawrence Kirschenbaum, M.U.. the Respondent, and the

Department of ProfESSional Regulation, referred to as Department.
stipulate and agree to the following joint Stipulation and to the
entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to a5

Board, incorporating this Stipulation and the agreement 1n this

matter.
ﬁllgUgaTEQ fﬁCIS
1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed

physician in the State of Florida having been issued license number
HE 0050386.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chdpter 458. Florida Statutes, and the rulES enacted
pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative

Complaint is attached hereto and incorporated by reference as

Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of
fact contained in the Administrative Complaint attached hereto 55

Exhibit A.

P C N

l. Reepondent, in his capacity as a licensed physician,
admits that in such capacity he is subject to the provisions of
Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the
Department and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
AdministratiVE Complaint. 1: proven, constitute violations of
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative

Complaint.

EIIEHLAIEDeDIEEQﬁlIlQE

1. Respondent shall not in the future violate chapters 455‘
455 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated pursuant
thereto.

2. The Board shall impose an administrativa fine in the
amount of $500.00 against the Respondent. The fine shall be paid
by the Respondent to the Executive Director of the Board within
thirty days of the imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand from the Board

of Medicine.

4. within six months of the filing of the Final order
incorporating the terms of this Stipulation, Respondent shall
submit documentation to demonstrate his compliance with all of the
continuing educatian requirements for the 1988 -1989 licensing

biennium. Such documentation shall consist of certified copies of

the receipts, vouchers, certificates. or other papers, such as the
physician's recognition awards issued by the American Medical
Aesociation. as may be necessary to document completion of the
continuing education. In the event that Respondent fails to timely
document compliance with all of the continuing education
requirements for the relevant time periods Respondent’s license to
practice medicine shall be suspended until such time as
documentation of compliance is received by the Board.

5. Prior to renewing his license at the end of the 1990 -
1991 biennium, Respondent shall be required to dOCument compliance
with the continuing education requirements for that period. Such
documentation shall consist of certified copies of the receipts,
vouchers, certificates, or other papers, such as the physician’s
recognition awards iesueé by the American Medical Association, as
may be necessary to document completion of the continuing
education.

6. It is expressly understood that this stipulation is
subject to the approval of the Board and the Department. In this
regarding the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing
paragraphs of the stipulated ?acts, stipulated Conclusions of Law
am: stipulated Disposition} shall have no force and effect unless
a Final Order‘ is entered incorporating the terms of this
stipulation, by the Board.

?. should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this stipulation by the Respondent may be used as
direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding. However,

such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment

purposes.

B. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this
joint stipulation and subsequent Final Order incorporating same
will in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board andfor
the Department against the Respondent for acts or admissions not
Specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as
Exhibit “A" herein.

9. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Stipulation, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps, and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of the joint Stipulation of facts, conclusions
of law and imposition of discipline, and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Stipulation.

10. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Stipulation, the
parties hereby agree that each party will hear his own attorney's
fees and costs resulting from prosecution and/or defense of this
proceeding. Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney’s
fees or costs from the Department in connection with this
disciplinary proceeding.

11. This Stipulation is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
this ceuse. In-this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent, as well as any factual statements provided by
Respondent or Respondent's counsel, prior to or in conjunction with
consideration or the stipulation. Furthermore, should this joint

Stipulation not be accepted by the Board, it is agreed that

presentation to and consideration of this Stipulation and other
documents and matters by the Board shall not unfairly or illegally
prejudice the Board or any of its members from further

participation, consideration or resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED this ‘L{ day of Hi£iﬁ££ﬁ . 1991‘

      

LLB. rence 1 schenbaum, £4.13.

sworn to and hsg‘ibed
' ' 5% day

.JJQBl.

  
   

      

- - ’ z x,
NOTARY PUBLIC

/ ,
‘5 L
My Commission Expires: /3;//ﬂ"
APPROVED this (gig- day of éﬂgﬁgg , 1991.

George Stuart
Secretary

By: Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Attorney
Medical Section
Revised: 12/5/90

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSEONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
CASE NO. 9009230
V.

LAWRENCE KIRSCHENBAUM. M.D.

Respondent.

/
ADMIHISIEﬁIJkELEQMELAlﬂI

COMES NOW, the PetitionEL, Department of Professional

 

Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner,” and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against LRWRENCE KIRSCHEBAUH, M.U., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent,“ and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency Charged with r9gulating
the practice oi medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes. Chapter 455. Florida Statutes. and Chapter 459, Florida
Statutes.

. 2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, hav1ng been
issued license number HE 0050386. Respondent'u last known
address is 38 Harlan Road, Nestport, Connecticut, 05880—2923.

3. Pursuant to Section 455.213{5}, Florida Statutes, as a
condition of renewal of a license, the Board of Medical Examiners
(Board of Medicine) shall require licensees which it regulates to

periodically demonstrate their professional competency by

Completing at least forty (40) hours of continuing education

every two {2) years, of which at least five (5} hours shall
cancern risk management. Criteria for, and content ofa
continuing education courses shall be approved by the Board_

4. Pursuant to Rule 21M-23.002. Florida AdministratLVe
Code, every physician licensed pursuant to Chapter 458, Florlda
Statutes, shall be required to complete forty {40) hours of
continuing medical education approved by the Board in the twent}—
four {24; months preceding each biennial renewal period as
established by the Department. At least five {5] of such
continuing medical education hours required for renewal shall
concern risk management.

5. Pursuant to Section 21M-26.002(2){a}, Florida
Administrative Code. risk management means the identification,
investigation, analysis. and evaluation of risks and the
selection of the most advantageous method of correcting,
reducing, or eliminating, identifiable risks.

6. Pursuant to Section 21M~28.002(3}, Florida
Administrative Code, part of the application for renewal shall
include a form on which the licensee shall state that he has
Completed the required continuing education. Additionally, the
licensee must retain such receipts, Vouchers, certificates, or
other papers, such as physician recognition awards issued by the
American Medical Association. as may be necesaary to document
completion of the continuing medical educaticn listed on the
renewal form for a period of not less than {our (4) years from
the date the course was taken. The Board will randomly audit
such numbers of licensees as is necessary to assure that the

continuing education requirements are met.

7. Pursuant to Rule 21H-28.002{6}. Florida Admlnistrative
Code, the following courses have been approved by the Board of
Medicine for continuing education:

a. Organized courses approved {or American Medical
Association Category I Continuing Medical Education credits or
accepted for the American Medical Assoeiation physician
recognition award.

b. Any postgraduate training program accredited by the
Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education.

c. The following specialty training: American Callege
of Emergency Physicians, Category 1; American Academy of Family
Physicians prescribed credit: and American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists cognates.

8. Pursuant to Section 455.2226t2}. Florida Statutes, the
board shall require each person licensed or certified under
Chapter 458 to complete an educational course approved by the
board on human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and acquired immune
deficiency syndrome {AIDS}.

9. Section 455.2225(T}. Florida Statutes, gives the board
the authority to adopt rules to carry out the provisions of
Section 455.222612), Florida Statutes.

10. Pursuant to Rule 21H—2B.005, Florida Administrative
Code, promulgated by the board, all Category 1, American Medical
Association continuing medical education courses which are at
least three hours and which include the topics of HIV and AIDS:

the disease and its spectrum of clinical manifestation:

epidemiology, treatment, counseling and prevention; legal issues

