FILED

umnmmtdﬁmmusmdWMﬁgmmRmmmmn
DEPUTY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

BOARD OF MEDICINE ‘/” ‘
(
M&wﬂw
§\”L

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND

PROFESSIONAL REGULATION, DAﬂL.:¥;l£;L_ZL:L_._.

Petitioner,

v. DBPR CASE NUMBERS: 00-92833
- 00—95873
\“W89—06994

90—06968

90—02245

90-16236

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0013446

JOSHUA L. STERNBERG, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on October 2, 1993, in
Miami, Florida, for consideration of an Agreement for
Relinquishment of License (attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered
into between the parties in the above—styled case. Upon
consideration of the Agreement for Relinquishment, the documents
submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the parties, and
being otherwise advised in the premises, the Board accepts the
Agreement for Relinquishment of License, and Respondent agrees
never again to apply for licensure as a physician in the State of
Florida.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Agreement for
Relinquishment of License as submitted be and is hereby approved

and adopted in toto and incorporated by reference herein.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the penalty provisions
of the Final Order in DPR Case No. 0095873 filed on April 16, 1993,
which was the subject of an appeal to the Third District Court of
Appeal of the State of Florida, are hereby vacated, and Dr.
Sternberg’s voluntary relinquishment of his license shall stand in
lieu thereof.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED,

That Respondent’s Agreement for Relinquishment of License to
practice medicine in the State of Florida is hereby ACCEPTED.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Department.

DONE AND ORDERED this Mday O W , 1993.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

ggémx/ a QWMD

Eﬂward A. Bauer, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Joshua L. Sternberg,
M.D., 16751 N.E. 6th Avenue, North Miami, Florida 33162-2409,
Arthur J. England, Jr., Esquire, 1221 Brickell Avenue, Miami,

Florida 33131 interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr.,

examined her.

5. Respondent's written records indicate that Patient #1 had
normal blood pressure, tachycardia, and injected throat exudate,
wheezing, and rhonchi in her chest.

6. Respondent diagnosed Patient #1 as suffering from
tonsillitié with bronchitis.

7. Respondent dispensed Theo-dur and Erythromycin and
advised Patient #1 to come to his office for a follow-up visit in
twenty—four (24) hours.

8. Theo-dur, is a "legend drug" as defined by Section
465.003(7), Florida Statutes.

9. Erythromycin is a "legend drug" as defined by Section
465.003(7), Florida Statutes.

10. On or about January 18, 1987, Patient #1 presented to
Respondent at his office.

11. Although Respondent performed and billed for an
examination of Patient #1 on this date, no medical records exist
to document the examination, diagnosis, or treatment.

12. Respondent billed Patient #1 for a comprehensive office
visit for a new patient, a surcharge for service on a Sunday, a
long list of endocrine tests, a general chemistry profile,
urinalysis, and blood counts.

13. Respondent’s diagnoses of Patient #1 are recorded only
on Patient #1’5 health insurance claim forms.

14. The diagnoses included primary hypothyroidism,

hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism, and hyperprolactinemia.

15. There is no record of treatment for the problems
Respondent diagnosed.

16. Respondent did not have justification for the battery of
endocrinologic laboratory tests he ordered for Patient #1.

17. There is no evidence to justify the diagnoses that
Respondent submitted in Patient #l’s insurance billing statements
which he signed in his capacity as a physician.

18. The results of the endocrinologic laboratory tests do
not support the Respondent’s diagnoses of hypothyroidism,
hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism, and hyperprolactinemia.

COUNT ONE

19. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through eighteen (18), as if fully set forth herein.

20. Respondent failed to practice medicine with thet level
of carE, skill and treatment which a reasonably prudent similar
physician recognizes as acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances as evidenced by the following: Respondent did not
have justification for the battery of endocrinologic tests he
ordered for Patient #1; Respondent’s diagnoses are not justified
by the results of the endocrinologic tests he ordered for Patient
#1; and Respondent did not treat Patient #1 for the problems he
diagnosed.

21. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, gross or repeated
malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that level of

care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably

prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances.
COUNT TWO

22. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through eighteen (18), and twenty (20), as if fully set forth
herein.

23. Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of Patient #1 including, but not
limited to, the following: Respondent did not keep any medical
records to record Patient #l’s examination, diagnosis , and
treatment which took place on or about January 18, 1987i
Respondent’s diagnoses of Patient #1 are recorded only on Patient
#1’5 health insurance forms; Respondent ordered endocrinologic
tests not justified by Patient #1’5 medical records; the results
of the endocrinologic tests do not support the Respondent’s
diagnoses of primary hypothyroidism, hypogonadotrophic
hypogonadism, and hyperprolactinemia which Respondent recorded on
Patient #l's health insurance claim forms; and there is no record
of treatment for the problems that Respondent diagnosed.

24. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, by failing to keep written
medical records justifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or

administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations.

COUNT THREE

25. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
thorough eighteen (18), twenty (20), and twenty-three (23), as if
fully set forth herein.

26. Respondent exercised influence on Patient #1 in such a
manner as to exploit the patient for financial gain of the
licensee, including, but not limited to, the following: Respondent
did not have justification for the battery of endocrinologic tests
he ordered on Patient #1.

27. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(n), Florida Statutes, by exercising influence
on the patient or client in such a manner as to exploit the patient
or client for financial gain of the licensee or of a third party,
which shall include, but not be limited to, the promdtinq or
selling of services, goods, appliances, or drugs.

COUNT FOUR

28. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through eighteen (18), twenty (20), twenty-three (23), and twenty-
six (26), as if fully set forth herein.

29. Respondent made or filed a false report which the
licensee knew to be false, intentionally or negligently failed to
file a report or record required by state or federal law in that
Respondent had no evidence to justify the diagnoses of
hypothyroidism, hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism, and
hyperprolactinemia, which Respondent signed in his capacity as a

licensed physician and submitted to Patient tl's health insurance

carrier.

30. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(l)(h), Florida Statutes, by making or filing a
report with the licensee knows to be false, intentionally or
negligently failing to file a report or record required by state
or federal law, willfully impeding or obstructing such filing or
inducing another person to do 50. Such reports or records shall
include only those which are signed in the capacity as a licensed
physician.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s license,
restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

. ‘\\
deems approprlate. ‘ 1

/

SIGNED this (25

 

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

 

Larry G. McPherson, Jr. F l L E D

Chief Medical Attorney De ﬂ
Florida Bar #788643 pa’memerofessiona:Regulatfal' ‘
Department of Professional Regulation AGENCYCLERK 1

1940 North Monroe Street (’
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750 61);?
LAQP/ABS / tb ’ 0V

PCP: JulY 12. 1991 crux

Burt, Wertheimer and Campbell ”“‘*‘*~—-—————~.__
:; ‘ '7_.:{/; ;}|
6 ‘ '» ‘ _

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

BOARD OF MEDICINE
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,
PETITIONER,
Vs. ' CASE NO. 90-02245
JOSHUA L. STERNBERG, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

 

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
JOSHUA L. STERNBERG, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent,"
and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the
practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida Statutes;
Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a l;censed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0013446. Respondent’s last known address is
16751 NE 6th Avenue, Medical Service Center, North Miami Beach,
Florida, 33162-2409.

3. On or about December 14, 1989, Patient #1, a forty-three
(43) year old female, presented to Respondent with complaints of
vaginal discharge and lower back pain. Patient #1 had a history
of recent enlarged tonsils, hoarseness, coughing and wheezing,

1

increased thirst, various neurological symptoms, and notably
anxiety depression, and suicidal ideation. Patient #1 had a
hysterectomy in 1975.

4. Respondent performed a very extensive series of diagnostic
tests and evaluations of Patient #1, including, but not limited to:
blood tests, urinalysis, echodardiogram, tests for diabetes and
hypothyroidism, a retroperitoneal ultrasound, an extensive bone
scan, a dual photon scan, and radionucleotide injection with scan.

5. Respondent then immediately filed with Patient’s insurance
carrier, claim forms for Patient #1 which list diagnoses of
osteoporosis, primary hypothyroidism, peptic acid disease, diabetes
mellitus, arthritis, palpitations, menopausal syndrome, and chronic
pyelonephritis. Patient #1 did not then suffer from any of these
conditions.

6. Despite the aforementioned excessive and extensive
testing, Respondent failed to address Patient #1’5 history of
coughing and wheezing, enlarged tonsils, and hoarseness.
Respondent also failed to perform a mammogram when Patient #l’s age
and medical history warranted it.

7. Respondent failed to refer Patient #1 to a psychologist
or psychiatrist when she indicated a history of anxiety,
depression, and suicidal ideation.

8. Respondent’s extensive bone scan of Patient #1 was
unjustified and unnecessary at this level of investigation.

Additionally, Respondent billed Patient #l’s insurance carrier for

ten (10) separate and individual components of the body,
fragmenting the bone scan so as to increase the bill amount.
QQQELJBE
9. Petitioner realleqes and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through eight (8), as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

10. Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances in that Respondent failed to do the following:
address Patient #l's history of enlarged tonsils, hoarsenesst
coughing and wheezing; perform a mammogram when warranted by
Patient #l's age and medical history; and refer Patient #1 to a
psychologist or psychiatrist.

11. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, through gross or repeated
malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that level of
care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances.

COUNT TWO
12. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through eight (8) and eleven (11), as if fully set forth herein
this Count Two.
13. Respondent is guilty of exercising influence on the

patient or client in such a manner as to exploit the patient or

client for financial gain in that Respondent persuaded Patient #1
to undergo expensive and unnecessary bone scans and an ultrasound
examination, in order to bill Patient #l’s insurance company for
purposes of his own financial gain.

14. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(n), Florida Statutes, by exercising influence
on the patient or client in such a manner as to exploit the patient
or client for financial gain of the licensee or of a third party,
which shall include, but not be limited to, the promoting or
selling of services, goods, appliances, or drugs.

COUNT THREE

15. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through eight (8), eleven (11), and fourteen (14) as if fully set
forth herein this Count Three.

16. Respondent is guilty of making deceptive, untrue, or
fraudulent representations in or related to the practice of
medicine or employing a trick or scheme in the practice of
medicine, in that Respondent: reported eight (8) fraudulent
diagnoses on insurance claim forms for Patient #1; had Patient #1
undergo expensive tests which Respondent knew to be unnecessary;
and billed Patient #1’5 insurance company for fragmented and
individual bone scan, so as to increase his bill.

17. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(k), Florida Statutes, by making deceptive,

untrue, or fraudulent representations in or related to the practice

of medicine or employing a trick or scheme in the practice of
medicine.
QQ§!E_EQHE

18. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through eight (8), eleven (11), fourteen (14), and seventeen (17)
as if fully set forth herein this Count Four.

19. Respondent is guilty of making or filing a report which
he knew to be false, in that Respondent reported fraudulent
diagnoses for eight (8) diseases which he knew Patient #1 did not
suffer.

20. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(h), Florida Statutes, by making or filing a
report which the licensee knows to be false, intentionally or
negligently failing to file a report or record required by state
or federal law, willfully impeding or obstructing such filing or
inducing another person to do so. Such reports or records shall
include only those which are signed in the capacity as a licensed
physician.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

Chief Medical Attorney, Department of Business and Professional
Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe Street,

Tallahassee, Flor??? 32399-0792, at or before 5:00 P.M., this
’ A

Q? day of

, 1993.

272% / Jw’

MARM HARRIS, Ph.D.
Executive Director

 

  
 

SIGNED this OW day of , 1992.

/_\
George $tuart, Segretary /

  
  

/ , /'

   
    

edical Attorney
COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.
Chief Medical Attorney
Department of Professional Regulation

 

1940 North Monroe Street F I L E D
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750
Florida Bar #788643 Department of Professtonal Regulation
LAQP/hrb/adb AGEALY CLERK _
PCP: April 16, 1992 / Ow
O ﬂow
CLERK
l
DATE ’9'!" (i 2

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT or PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,
PETITIONER,
vs. 4 CASE NO. 90-06968

JOSHUA L. STERNBERG, M.D.,

RESPONDENT.
/

INISTRAT V COMP NT
COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
JOSHUA L. STERNBERG, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respendent,"
and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number HE 0013446. Respondent’s last known address is
16751 Northeast Sixth Avenue, North Miami Beach, Florida 33162-
2409.

3. Respondent’s area of practice is nuclear medicine.

Respondent is board certified in nuclear medicine.

4. On or about August 24, 1989, Patient #1, an eighty-five
(85) year-old female, first presented to Respondent complaining of
pains in her lower back, hips, upper leg and waist.

5. Respondent performed.a physical examination of Patient #1
and found that Patient #1 suffered from tachycardia (excessive
rapidity in the action of the heart), atrial gallop, kyphosis
(abnormally increased convexity in the curvature of the thoracic
spine; hunchback), stiffness in the left ankle and swollen feet.

6. Respondent then diagnosed Patient #1 with the fbllowing
conditions: hypothyroidism; osteoporosis; menopausal syndrome; and
angina pectoris.

7. Respondent prescribed Feldane, an anti-inflammatory and
analgesic medication indicated for acute or long—term use in the
relief of signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid
arthritis. Respondent then ordered Patient #1 to undergo the
following tests: arthritis profile; SHAC; complete blood count
(CBC), sedimentation rate; an extensive endocrine workup including
screenings for T4 (levothyroxine); T3 (triiodothyronine); TSH
(thyroid-stimulating hormone); T3U (triiodothyronine uptake); FT4I
(free thyroxine); FSH (follicle-stimulating hormone); LH
(luteinizing hormone); and Estradiol. In addition, Respondent
ordered Patient #1 to undergo the following radiographic studies:
bone and joint scans of the cervical spine, thoracic spine, and
lumbar spine; and the sacroiliac joints including the right hip,

left hip, right knee, left knee, right hand and left hand.

a. Respondent’s interpretation of Patient {1's bone and
joint scans was as follows: the pattern of abnormalities are
consistent with active inflammatory disease and treatment with
anti-inflammatory medications may be indicated.

9. Respondent’s physical examination failed to identify any
supporting symptoms of hypothyroidism to justify his diagnosis and
testing for hypothyroidism.

10. Respondent failed to document any supporting symptoms of
hypothyroidism in Patient {1's medical records.

11. Pursuant to Section 766.111(1), Florida Statutes,_ no
health care provider licensed pursuant to chapter 458 shall order“
procure, or administer unnecessary diagnostic tests, which are not
reasonably calculated to assist the health care provider in
arriving at a diagnosis and treatment of a patient's condition.

12. Respondent’s orders for the aforementioned laboratory and
radiographic studies were excessive for an initial examination.
Specifically, Respondent's order for the aforementioned T3, T30
screens constitutes excessive and unnecessary testing in that
Respondent's order for a T4 and TSH screen was sufficient to rule
out the possibility of hypothyroidism in Patient #1. Further,
Respondent's order for the aforementioned extensive endocrine
workup constitutes excessive and unnecessary testing in that there
was no need to rule out menopausal syndrome in Patient #1, an
eighty-five (85) year-old female.

13. On or about September 7, 1989, Patient #1 presented to

Respondent for further evaluation per Respondent’s instructions.

14. Respondent’s physical examination of Patient #1 at that
time consisted of documenting Patient {1’s blood pressure.

15. During Respondent's followup physical examination of
Patient #1, Respondent failed to document any findings, other than
Patient #1’5 blood pressure, or symptoms in the medical records to
justify his plan of treatment.

16. Respondent nonetheless prescribed Feldane 20 mg,
Estraderm patch, Provera 2.5 mg, and Oscal 500 mg. Respondent then
ordered the following tests: echocardiogram ' (ECHO);
electrocardiogram (EKG); gated blood pool scan; and myocardial
scans (MUGA).

17. Respondent findings were as follows: EKG within normal
limits, ECHO indicated aortic stenosis; and gated blood pool scan
results appear to indicate normal cardiac function.

18. Respondent failed to perform a complete gynecological
examination prior to prescribing Estraderm patches, a hormonal
therapy, to Patient #1 given that said medication could possibly
cause a recurrence of menstruation.

19. Respondent failed to document any referrals or consults
with gynecologists in Patient #l’s medical records prior to
prescribing Estraderm patches, a hormonal therapy treatment, to
Patient #1. Respondent also failed to document any discussions
with Patient #1 regarding the possible side effects of such

hormonal therapy (i.e., recurrent menstrual bleeding) in the

medical records.

20. Respondent’s orders for Patient #1 to undergo an
echocardiegram (ECHO) and myocardial scans (MUGA) constitute
excessive and unnecessary testing in that ECHO and HUGA scans are
not indicated during a proper initial medical examinatibn to rule
out angina pectoris.

21. Further, Respondent, who is board certified in nuclear
medicine, has no qualifications to perform echocardiography.

22. On or about September 8, 1989, Respondent telephoned
Patient #1 with the results of said tests at which time Patient #1
refused any further treatment from Respondent.

23. Respondent's billing records indicate that the
aforementioned diagnostic studies were subsequently unbundled
(i.e., Respondent billed Patient #1 for each diagnostic study
individually) for maximal reimbursement.

COUNI ONE

24. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty-three (23) as if fully set forth herein this Count
One.

25. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that level of
care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumétances in that Respondent failed to net the
standard of care in his examination, diagnosis and treatment of
Patient I1 in that Respondent ordered Patient #1 to undergo
multiple laboratory studies and tests that were not related to the

symptoms Patient #1 described in her initial evaluation with

Respondent. Specifically, Respondent’s physical examination failed
to identify any supporting symptoms of hypothyroidism to justify
his diagnosis and testing for hypothyroidism. In addition,
Respondent failed to perform a complete gynecological examination
prior to prescribing Estraderm patches, 3 hormonal therapy, to
Patient #1 given that said medication could possibly cause a
recurrence of menstruation.

26. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, gross or repeated
malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that level of
care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances.

COUNT TWQ

27. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty-three (23) and twenty-five (25) as if fully set
forth herein this Count Two.

28. Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of Patient #1 in that Respondent
failed to document any supporting symptoms of hypothyroidism in
Patient fl's medical records. During Respondent's followup
physical examination of Patient #1, Respondent failed to document
any findings, other than Patient #1’5 blood pressure, or symptoms
in the medical records to justify his plan of treatment.
Respondent failed to document any referrals or consults with

gynecologists in Patient fl's medical records prior to prescribing

Estraderm patches, a hormonal therapy treatment, to Patient #1.
Respondent also failed to document any discussions with Patient #1
regarding the possible side effects of such hormonal therapy (1.2.,
recurrent menstrual bleeding) in the medical records.

29. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, failing to keep written
medical records justifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or
administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations.

C0 T

30. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty—three (23), twenty-five (25), and twenty-eight (28)
as if fully set forth herein this Count Three.

31. Respondent failed to perform any statutory or legal
obligation placed upon a licensed physician in that Respondent
ordered excessive and unnecessary laboratory and radiographic
testing of Patient #1, contrary to Section 766.111(1), Florida
Statutes.

32. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(g), Florida Statutes, failing to perform any
statutory or legal obligation placed upon a licensed physician.

QQQEI_EQQB

33. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

through twenty-three (23), twenty—five (25), tventy-eight (28), and

thirty-one (31) as if fully set forth herein this Count Four.

34. Respondent practiced beyond the scope permitted by law
and performed professional responsibilities which Respondent knew,
or had reason to know, that he was not competent to perform in that
Respondent ordered and interpreted Patient Il's echocardiogram
(ECHO) and myocardial (MUGA) scans when, in fact, Respondent, who
is board certified in nuclear medicine, has no qualifications to
perform echocardiography.

35. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(v), Florida Statutes, practicing or offering to
practice beyond the scope permitted by law or accepting and
performing professional responsibilities which the licensee knows
or has reason to know that he is not competent to perform.

QQDEI_£1¥E

36. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty-three (23), twenty-five (25), twenty-eight (28),
thirty—one (31), and thirty-four (34) as if fully set forth herein
this Count Five.

37. Respondent exercised influence on Patient #1 in such a
manner as to exploit Patient #1 for financial gain in that
Respondent's billing records indicate that Patient {1’s diagnostic
studies were subsequently unbundled (i.e., Respondent billed
Patient #1 for each diagnostic study individually) for maximal
reimbursement.

38. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(n), Florida statutes, exercising influence on

the patient or client in such a manner as to exploit the patient or

client for financial gain of the licensee or of a third party,
which shall include, but not be limited to, the promoting or
selling of services, goods, appliances, or drugs.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penaities: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this /6 day of g/Mﬂ/L , 1993.

George s uaftﬁ Secretary

 

Chie Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Chief Medical Attorney

Department of Professional Regulation F ‘ L E D
1940 North Monroe Street

Deaf

RCP/rb DEPUTY CL A '
PCP: February 25, 1993 ‘~ \
Rodriguez, Murray and Slade

egMaﬁon

 

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
STATE OF FLORIDA

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
CASE NOS. 0092833, 0095873,

89-6994, 902245,
90-6968 and 90-16236

v.
JOSHUA L STERNBERG, M.D.,

Respondent.

vvvvvvvvvvv

 

ASEREEMENT FQR RELINSZleﬂMENT QF LICENSE

The Florida Department of Professional Regulation and Joshua L Stemberg,
MD. stipulate and agree to the presentation of this Agreement to the Florida Board of
Medicine for approval, based on the following predicate facts and stipulated conclusion

of law, and subject to the terms set forth in this Agreement.

Pregiggte Fact:

1. At all times material hereto, Dr. Sternberg has been a licensed physician in
the State of Florida, having been issued license number ME 0013446.

2. Dr. Sternberg was duly charged by administrative complaints with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules enacted pursuant thereto. Four
of the administrative complaints axe pending for fact-finding trial and a recommended
order before a hearing ofﬁcer of the Division of Administrative Hearings. Dr. Stemberg
has requested an opportunity to discuss a settlement as to the ﬁfth complaint and, by

agreement of the parties, that complaint has not been forwarded to DOAH pending

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

PETITIONER,
vs. ' CASE NO. 90-16236
JOSHUA L. STERNBERG, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
JOSHUA L. STERNBERG, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Resppndent,"
and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the state of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0013446. Respondent’s last known address is
16751 N.E. 6th Avenue, North Miami Beach, FL 33162.

3. On or about June 16, 1990, Patient #1 was involved in an
automobile accident.

4. on or about June 29, 1990, Patient #1 filed a claim with
her insurance company and gave information which indicated she was

1

not injured as a result of the accident.

5. On or about July 17, 1990, Patient #1 presented to the
Respondent’s office complaining of headaches, neck pain, shoulder
and back pain, numbness in her legs, and other intermittent
complaints.

6. Respondent used a checklist to document the history and
physical examination of Patient #1.

7. Respondent’s history and physical were inadequate and do
not reflect a comprehensive neurologic or musculoskeletal
assessment regarding Patient #1.

8. Respondent then ordered the nuclear medicine studiee
which are overly sensitive and nonspecific techniques to assess
musculoskeletal injury of Patient #1.

9. Respondent failed to order radiographic studies which
are more routine, more direct, more sensitive, and more specific
diagnostic assessment of Patient #l's skeletal status.

10. Respondent ordered a bone densitometry study which was
not indicated by Patient #1’5 presenting complaints.

11. Respondent interpreted areas of abnormal uptake that were
noted on the bone scan as stress function concerning Patient #1.

12. The differential diagnosis of abnormal uptake on the bone
scan is broad and requires chemical correlation to decide its true
significance.

13. Respondent failed to use the proper diagnostic test on

Patient #1, and inappropriately selected a bone scan.

14. Respondent failed to sufficiently and adequately document
Patient #1’5 findings on the bone scan.

15. Respondent diagnosed Patient #1 as suffering
osteoporosis.

16. Respondent inappropriately treated Patient #1 with
Didronel. Didronel is effective in women who have already suffered
a vertebral compression fraction, but Patient #1 never had the
consequence of osteoporosis so the Didronel administration was
inappropriate.

17. Didronel is a "legend drug" as defined in Florida
Statutes section, 465.003(7).

18. Respondent inappropriately ordered unnecessary and
inappropriate tests and by inappropriately unbundled studies
regarding Patient #1.

19. Respondent billed for repeated bone scans, but only
injected Patient #1 a single time with the radioactive isotopic.

20. Respondent’s use and charges for hot packs were excessive
and inappropriate regarding Patient #1’5 care and treatment.

21. Respondent’s medical records concerning Patient #1 were
inadequate in that his observation were skant and his physical
examination was incomplete.

COUNT ONE

22. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty-one (21), as if fully set forth herein this Count
One.

23. Respondent failed to practice medicine with an acceptable

level of care in that Respondent did one or more of the following:
Respondent failed to perform a comprehensive neurologic or
musculoskeletal assessment; Respondent failed to perform plain
radiographic studies indicated by Patient #1's complaints;
Respondent used nonspecific nuclear medicine studies instead of
specific diagnostic studies; Respondent inappropriately performed
a bone densitometry study; Respondent failed to rule out other
causes of the patient's abnormal intake; Respondent inappropriately
diagnosed stress fracture; and Respondent’s treatment of Patient
#l’s osteoporosis was inappropriate.

24. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, by gross or repeated
malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that level of
care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances.

CO UNT TWO

25. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty—one (21), and twenty—three (23), as if fully set
forth herein this Count Two.

26. Respondent failed to maintain written medical records
justifying Patient #l’s course of treatment by one or more of the
following acts: Respondent's history and physical examination were
inadequate; Respondent failed to record a comprehensive neurologic
or musculoskeletal assessment; Respondent used a checklist and by

passed an objective record of the patient’s complaints;. and

Respondent did not adequately document the bone scan results.

27. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, by failing to keep written
medical records justifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or
administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations.

QQEHE_EEB§§

28. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty-one (21), twenty—three (23) and twenty—six (26), as
if fully set forth herein this Count Three.

29. Respondent inappropriately or excessively prescribed,
dispensed, administered, mixed, or otherwise prepared a legend
drug, including controlled substances in that: Reepondent
inappropriately treated Patient #1 with Didrorel.

30. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(q), Florida statues, by prescribing, dispensing,
administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing a legend drug,
including any controlled substance, other than in the course of the
physician's professional practice.

COUNT FOUR

31. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty-one (21), twenty—three (23), twenty-six (26), and
twenty-nine (29), as if fully set forth herein this Count Four.

32. Respondent exercised influence on the patient to exploit

the patient for financial gain in that Respondent did one or more

of the following: Respondent ordered unnecessary and inappropriate
tests (including, but not limited to, bone scans and bone
densitometry); Respondent inappropriately unbundled studies to
receive maximum reimbursement and Respondent inappropriately
charged for hot packs.

33. 'Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Sections 458.331(1)(n), Florida Statutes, by exercising influence
on the patient or client in such a manner as to exploit the patient
or client for financial gain of the licensee or of a third party,
which shall include, but not be limited to, the promoting or
selling of services, goods, appliances, or drugs.

QQHEI_£IXE

34. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty-one (21), twenty-three (23), twenty—six (26),
twenty-nine (29), and thirty-two (32), as if fully set forth herein
this Count Five.

35. Respondent violated Section 766.111(1), Florida statutes,
by engaging in unnecessary diagnostic test including one or more
of the following: bone scans and bone densitometry.

36. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(g), Florida Statutes, by failing to perform any
statutory or legal obligation placed upon a licensed physician.

COUNT SIX

37. Petitioner reallges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

through twenty—one (21), twenty-three (23), twenty-six (26),

twenty—nine (29), thirty—two (32), and thirty-five (35), as if

fully set forth herein this Count Six.

38. Respondent made deceptive, untrue or fraudulent
representations in or related to the practice of medicine or
employed a trick or scheme in the practice of medicine when
Respondent gave one injection to Patient #1, but Charged for each
different area looked at.

39. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(k), Florida Statutes, making deceptive, untrue,
or fraudulent representations in or related to the practice of
medicine or employing a trick or scheme in the practice of
medicine.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s license,
restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board
deems appropriate.

SIGNED this dz day of OC'DBQKL , 1991.

Secretary‘

 

    
   

Ch‘?§ Medical Attorney
ILED

AGENCY CLERK

OOWOL/

CLERK
x

70m W

LAQP/FP/tb

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Chief Medical Attorney

Department of Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750
Florida Bar #788643

LAQP/FP/tb

PCP: October 3, 1991

Burt, Campbell and Basisht

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,
PETITIONER,
vs. CASE NO. 89-06994
JOSHUA L. STERNBERG, M.D.

RES PONDENT .
/

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner,“ and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
JOSHUA L. STERNBERG, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent,“
and alleges: i

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes. -‘

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number HE 0013446. Respondent’s Idst known address is
16751 Northeast Sixth Avenue, North Miami Beach, Florida 33162~
2409.

3. Respondent’s area of practice is nuclear medicine.

Respondent is board certified in nuclear medicine.

I‘l‘

 

 

4. Pursuant to Section 766.111, Florida Statutes, no health
care provider licensed pursuant to Chapters 458—461 or 466, Florida
Statutes, shall order, procure, or administer unnecessary
diagnostic tests, which are not reasonably calculated to assist the
health care provider in arriving at a diagnosis and treatment of a
patient’s condition.

Facts Pertaining Eatieg; £1

5. On or about August 13, 1988, Patient I1, a thirty-nine
(39) year-old male, was involved in a motor vehicle accident and
sustained various musculoskeletal injuries.

6. On or about August 29, 1988, Patient I1 first presented
to Respondent complaining of pains in his neck which radiated into
the shoulders and to both sides of his thoracic spine as well as
pain, pressure and numbness down the left arm.

7. Respondent performed a physical examination of Patient #1
and ordered a series of nuclear bone and joint scans which included
scans of Patient {1’s head, cervical spine, thoracic spine, right
elbow, left elbow, right shoulder ahd left shoulder. Respondent
failed to first order any base line plain X-rays for an initial
workup.

8. At all times material hereto, Respgndent failed to order
any plain X-ray films as indicated in a proper medical evaluation
of Patient {1's symptoms.

9. The bone scans findings indicated the following: strgss
fracture of C—4 vertebra, microfractures with secondary

inflammation of T1-T12, and inflammation of both shoulders.

settlement discussions. True copies of the ﬁve administrative complaints are attached as

3 Composite Exhibit.

3. Each complaint arose from and contains allegations of improper billing

practices, with only one of the five complaints having been initiated by a patient.

4. In none of the five administrative complaints is there an allegation that any

patient of Dr. Stemberg’s suffered physical or mental injury as a result of visitation to or

treatment by Dr. Stemberg.

5. No other complaints are pending before 01' known of by the Depztmnent.

Stinglgtgg anglusign 9! Law

6. in his capacity as a licensed physician, Dr. Stemberg is subject to the

provisions of Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and to the jurisdiction of the

Department and the Board.

km:
7. Both the Department and Dr. Sternberg are desirous of avoiding the cost,

time and diversion of resources necessary to prosecute and defend, respectively, both the

pending administrative complaints and the pending appeal from an earlier disciplinaxy
order in DPR Case No. 95873. Accordingly, they have agreed to the following terms,
conditioned on Board approval of this Agreement.
(a) The panics agree to request jointly that the Third District
Court of Appeal relinquish jurisdiction in Stemberg v. Department of

Professional Regulation, Case No 93-102, for remand to the Board to enter

 

Respondent then prescribed Feldene, an anti-inflammatory, analgesic

medication. Respondent’s impression was as follows: traumatic
injury; and stress fractures.

10. On or about October 17, 1988, Patient #1 returned for a
followup visit with Respondent. Patient #1 advised Respondent that
Feldene caused a dulling of his pains. Respondent instructed

Patient #1 to continue with the Feldene 20 mg and to return in one
(1) month for followup.

11. On or about November 23, 1983, Patient #1 returned to
Respondent as instructed and advised that his condition continued
to improve and that Feldene noticeably decreased his pain.

Respondent instructed Patient I1 to continue with the Feldane and
to return in one (1) month.

12. On or about March 13, 1989, Patient #1 presented to
Patient #1 and advised that the pain in his shoulders, neck and
elbows was less severe and less frequent. Patient [1 further
advised that he had stopped taking Feldene the previous month.
Respondent then ordered Patient #1 to undergo repeat bone and joint
scans including scans of Patient {1's cervical spine, thoracic
spine, right shoulder and left shoulder.

13. The repeat bone scans findings indicated the following:
improvement in the cervical and thoracic spine; and stable findings
in both shoulders.

14. On or about March 20, 1989, Respondent prescribed Ansaid

100 mg for Patient fl's pain.

 

15. On or about March 27, 1989, Respondent discontinued the
Ansaid when it proved ineffective and started Patient #1 on Motrin
800 mg.

16. On or about April 3, 1989, Patient #1 presented to
Respondent and advised that he noticed definite improvement on
Motrin 800 tid (three times a day) mg but complained that said
medication made him drowsy. Respondent decreased Patient fl's
dosage of Motrin 800 mg bid (twice a day). Respondent ‘then
instructed Patient #1 to return in one month for followup.

17. On or about May 4, 1989, Patient #1 presented to
Respondent as instructed. Respondent: instructed Patient #1 to take
Motrin 800 mg bid as need for pain. Respondent then discharged
Patient noting that Patient #1 had reached maximum medical
improvement .

18. In a letter dated on or about:3 May 4, 1989, Respondent
wrote a letter assigning a permanent 15x impairment to Patient {1’s
body caused as a result of injuries sustained by Patient #1 in the
automobile accident of August 13, 19§8.

19. Respondent's medical records of Patient #1 do not
document the findings to support this disability rating.

20. At all times material hereto, Respondent's prescriptions
for non-steroidal therapy medications constituted Respondent’s plan
of treatment. Respondent failed to pursue any other forms of
therapy (e.g., physical therapy) when Patient {1’s pain persisted.

21. Between November 23, 1988, and April 3, 1989, Respondent

billed Patient fl’s insurance carrier for (5) extended office

 

visits. Respondent's medical records of his care and treatment of
Patient #1 failed to document a level of service that would support
charging Patient {1’s insurance carrier for an extended office
visit. Specifically, Respondent's medical records fail to document
any physical or orthopedic examinations of Patient #1 during these
five (5) followup visits that would constitute a basis for charging
for extended office visits.

22. On or about August 29, 1988 and again on or about harch
13, 1989, Respondent ordered a series of bone and joint scans for
Patient #1. On both occasions, Respondent unbundled the charges
for said scans (i.e., Respondent charged for each scan on an
individual basis) for maximal financial reimbursement.

QQQHI_QEE

23. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty-two (22) as if fully set forth herein this Count
One.

24. Respondent failed to perform any statutory or legal
obligation placed upon a licensed physician in that Respondent
performed a physical examination of Patient #1 and ordered a series
of nuclear bone and joint scans which included scans of Patient
{1’s head, cervical spine, thoracic spine, right elbow, left elbow,
right shoulder and left shoulder which constituted excessive and/or
unnecessary testing. Respondent failed to first order any base
line plain X-rays for an initial workup.

25. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated

Section 458.331(1)(g), Florida Statutes, failing to perform any

 

statutory or legal obligation placed upon a licensed physician in
that Respondent violated the provisions of Section 766.111, Florida
Statutes.

COUNT TWO

26. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty—two (22) and twenty—four (24) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

27. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that levél of
care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances in that at all times material hereto,
Respondent’s prescriptions for non-steroidal therapy medications
constituted Respondent's plan of treatment. Respondent failed to
pursue any other forms of therapy (e.g., physical therapy) when
Patient {1's pain persisted. ‘ 7‘ v“

28. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, gross or repeated
malpractice or the failure to practicg medicine with that level of
care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances.

CQUNT THREE

29. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

through twenty-two (22), twenty-four (24) and twenty-seven (27) as

if fully set forth herein this Count Three.

 

30. Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of Patient #1 in that
Respondent's medical records fail to document any baseline X-ray
studies, physical examinations or orthopedic examinations to
justify his plan of treatment for Patient #l’s condition. In
addition, in a letter dated on or about May 4, 1989, Respondent
assigned a permanent 15% impairment to Patient #l's body caused as
a result of injuries sustained by Patient #1 in the automobile
accident of August 13, 1988. However, Respondent's medical records
of Patient #1 do not document the findings to support this
disability rating.

31. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(l)(m), Florida Statutes, failing to keep written
medical records justifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or
administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations.

COUNT FOEJR

32. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty-two (22), twenty-four (24), twenty-seven (27) and
thirty (30) as if fully set forth herein this Count Four.

33. Respondent exercised influence on Patient #1 in such a
manner as to exploit Patient #1 for financial gain in that on or
about August 29, 1988 and again on or about March 13, 1989,
Respondent ordered a series of bone and joint scans for Patient #1.

On both occasions, Respondent unbundled the charges for said scans

 

(i.e., Respondent charged for each scan on an individual basis) for
maximal financial reimbursement.

34. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(n), Florida Statutes, exercising influence on
the patient or client in such a manner as to exploit the patient or
client for financial gain of the licensee or of a third party,
which shall include, but not be limited to, the promoting or
selling of services, goods, appliances, or drugs.

Facts Pertaining to Patient [2

35. On or about February 21, 1989, Patient #2, a fifty-eight
(58) year-old female with a history of high blood pressure,
borderline diabetes and heart problems, first presented to
Respondent complaining of pain in her lower back, knees and hips.
Patient #2 also had a family history of diabetes, arthritis,
hypertension and heart attacks. Anotheﬁ physician had prescribed
Calan 240 once a day, Micronase 2.5 mg, one tablet per day and
Methyldopa 250, one tablet per day, to Patient #2 to manage her
diabetes and hypertension. .

36. Respondent performed a physical examination and diagnosed
Patient #2 with the following conditions: diabetes mellitus;
osteoporosis; hypothyroidism; goiter (enlarged thyroid); arthritis;
and stress fractures.

37. Respondent prescribed Carafate, four times a day, and

Motrin 800 mg, three times a day. Carafate is indicated in the

short-term treatment of duodenal ulcer. Motrin is indicated for

 

relief of mild to moderate pain secondary to rheumatoid arthritis
and osteoarthritis.

38. Respondent then ordered Patient #2 to undergo the
following tests: glucose and glycohemoglobin screens; extensive
hormone studies including screenings for T3 (triiodothyronine); T4
(levothyroxine); TSH (thyroidwstimulating hormone); TJU
(triiodothyronine uptake); FTBI (free triiodothyronine index); FT4I
(free thyroxine index); FSH (follicle—stimulating hormonei; LH
(luteinizing hormone); and Estradiol. In addition, Respondent
ordered Patient #2 to undergo the following radiographic studies:
plain X-rays of the right and left knee; and bone and joint scans
of the lumbar spine; sacroiliac joints; right hip; left hip; right
knee; and left knee.

39. Respondent failed to document any descriptions of
specific joints or muscle groups in the medical records that he may
have observed during his physical examination of Patient #2. In
addition, Respondent’s medical records fail to disclose adequate
documentation of Patient #2’5 Condigions to warrant the extensive
testing performed.

40. Respondent ordered extensive hormone studies performed,
however, Respondent failed to perform a cornesponding gynecologic
examination of Patient #2. Upon examination, Respondent diagnosed
Patient #2 with angina pectoris, however, Respondent subsequently
failed to perform an electrocardiogram (EKG), the basic study
indicated in the evaluation of angina pectoris. Thereafter,

Respondent failed to prescribe any therapy for angina, nor did

 

Respondent order Patient #2 to undergo any further evaluation for
angina pectoris.

41. Respondent’s orders for extensive hormone studies and
bone and joint scans of Patient #2’5 lumbar spine sacroiliac
joints, right hip, left hip, right knee and left knee constitute
excessive testing which is not indicated as an initial workup.

42. Patient #2'5 blood test results revealed the following:
an elevated TSH; normal T4, T3U and T3; FSH and LH are elewated
coupled with a low Estradiol level; and Glycohemoglobin is slightly
elevated while blood glucose was low. In addition, Patient #z's
SMA, CBC, RA Factor and A50 titer were essentially normal.

43. Respondent interpreted the plain X-rays of Patient #2'5
knees as normal. Respondent found that Patient #z's lumbar spine
bone and joint scans were consistent with stress fractures and
secondary inflammation in the L3, L4 and L5 vertebrae. Respondent
found that Patient #2'5 sacroiliac joints studies indicated right
sacroileitis. Respondent found that Patient #2'5 bilateral knee
studies were consistent with P°5?ible stress fractures with
inflammation. Respondent found Patient #2'5 bilateral hip studies
to be normal.

44. On or about February 22, 1989, Respondent advised Patient
#2 to discontinue taking her micronase based upon the results of
her blood tests results which found that Patient #2'3 blood glucose
level was low.

45. On or about April 6, 1989, Patient #2 presented to

Respondent for reevaluation per his instructions. Respondent

10

 

performed a physical examination and noted that the following:
diffusely enlarged gland, left lobe and right lobe; and
conjunctivitis, right eye. Respondent then performed a thyroid
scan.

46. Respondent found that the thyroid scan showed a diffusely
enlarged thyroid gland and diagnosed Patient #2 with a diffuse
goiter. Respondent then prescribed Synthroid 0.5 mg and instructed
Patient #2 to discontinue her Motrin. Respondent started Patient
#2 on Feldene 20 mg.

47. On or about April 10, 1§89, Respondent called in a
prescription for Garamycin Ophthalmic Solution for Patient #2'5
conjunctivitis. Respondent then telephoned Patient #2 to discuss
his followup plans for her hypothyroidism and diabetes. Patient #2
refused any further treatment from Respondent at that time.

48. Respondent, who is board certified in nuclear medicine,
has no formal training as a diabetoloqist. In addition, Patient I2
was already under the care of another physician for management of
her diabetes and hypertension prior to being seen by Respondent.

49. Respondent’s billing records indicate that the
aforementioned hormone studies and bone and joint scans were
subsequently unbundled for maximal reimbursement (i.e., Respondent
billed for each diagnostic study individually). In addition, on or
about April 6, 1989, Respondent billed Patient #2 for an extended
office visit, however, the medical records fail to document a level

of service to justify the charge for and extended office visit.

11

 

COUNT FIVE

50. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through four (4) and thirty-five (35) through forty—nine (49) as if
fully set forth herein this Count Five.

51. Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of Patient #2 in that Respondent
failed to document any descriptions of specific joints or muscle
groups in the medical records that he may have observed during his
physical examination of Patient #2. In addition, Respondent's
medical records fail to disclose adequate documentation of Patient
I2's conditions to warrant the extensive testing performed.

52. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida statutes, failing to keep written
medical records justifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or
administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations.

COUNT SEX

53. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through four (4), thirty-five through forty-nine (49) and fifty—one
(51) as if fully set forth herein this Count Six.

54. Respondent failed to practice medicine with that level of
care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances in that Respondent ordered extensive

hormone studies performed, however, Respondent failed to perform a

12

a new. substituted Final Order in DPR Case No. 95873, in accordance with
the terms of this Agreement.

(b) On remand from the Third District Court of Appeal, the
Board shall vacate the penalty provisions of its Final Order in DPR Case
No. 95873 (only), and in lieu thereof will enter a Final Order which sets as
a penalty the relinquishment of Dr. Stemberg’s license to practice medicine
in the State of Florida, to which Dr. Sternberg has agreed, with the
understanding and agreement that he will never again apply for licensure
a5 a medical doctor in the State of Florida. The Final Order will further
reﬂect that Dr. Stemberg understands that, by law, relinquishment to avoid
administrative prosecution is deemed to be in the nature of disciplinary
action against his license, and that he understands that to the extent
required by state or federal law, the fact of relinquishment pursuant to this
Agreement may be reportable to the Federation of State Medical Boards
and to the National Practitioners Data Bank.

(c) The Board agrees that all pending administrative complaints
will be concluded with the relinquishment of Dr. Sternberg’s license
pursuant to the entry of a Final Order approving this Agreement, and that

the Board’s jurisdiction over Dr. Sternberg will thenterminate.

n i ' n f h m
8. This Agreement is subject to the approval of the Board, and it is

understood and agreed by the Department and Dr. Stemberg that nothing contained in

 

corresponding gynecologic examination of Patient #2. Upon
examination, Respondent diagnosed Patient #2 with angina pectoris,
however, Respondent subsequently failed to perform an
electrocardiogram (EKG), the basic study indicated in the
evaluation of angina pectoris. Thereafter, Respondent failed to
prescribe any therapy for angina, nor did Respondent order Patient
#2 to undergo any further evaluation for angina pectoris.

55. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent vielated
Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, gross or repeated
malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that level of
care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances.

COUNT S EV EN

56. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through four (4), thirty-five (35) through forty-nine (49), fifty-
one (51) and fifty-four (54) as if fully set forth herein this

Count Seven. -

57. Respondent failed to perform any statutory or legal
obligation placed upon a licensed physician in that Respondent's
orders for extensive hormone studies and bone and joint scans of
Patient #2’5 lumbar spine sacroiliac joints, right hip, left hip,
right knee and left knee constitute excessive testing which is not
indicated as an initial workup.

58. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated

Section 458.331(1)(g), Florida Statutes, failing to perform any

13

 

statutory or legal obligation placed upon a licensed physician in
that Respondent violated the provisions cf Section 766.111, Florida
Statutes.

COUNT EIGHT

59. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through four (4), thirty-five (35) through forty-nine (49), fifty—
one (51), fifty-four (54) and fifty-seven (57) as if fully set
forth herein this Count Eight. I

60. Respondent practiced or offered to practice beyond the
scope permitted by law or accepting and performing professional
responsibilities which the licensee knows or has reason to know
that he is not competent to perform in that Respondent, who is
board certified in nuclear medicine, has no formal training as a
diabetologist. In addition, Patient #2 was already under the care
of another physician for management of her diabetes and
hypertension prior to being seen by Respondent.

61. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(V), Florida Statutes, practicing or offering to
practice beyond the scope permitted by law or accepting and
performing professional responsibilities which the licensee knows
or has reason to know that he is not competent to perform.

COUNT NINE

52. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through four, thirty—five (35) through forty-nine (49), fifty-one
(51), fifty—four (54), fifty—seven (57) and sixty (60) as if fully

set forth herein this Count Nine.

14

 

63. Respondent exercised influence on Patient #2 in such a
manner as to exploit Patient #2 for financial gain of the licensee
in that Respondent's billing records indicate that the
aforementioned hormone studies and bone and joint scans were
subsequently unbundled for maximal reimbursement (i.e., Respondent
billed for each diagnostic study individually). In addition, on or
about April 6, 1989, Respondent billed Patient #2 for an extended
office visit, however, the medical records fail to document a level
of service to justify the charge for and extended office visit.

64. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(n), Florida Statutes, exercising influence on
the patient or client in such a manner as to exploit the patient or
client for financial gain of the licensee or of a third party,
which shall include, but not be limited to, the promoting or

selling of services, goods, appliances, or drugs.

Eacts Pertaining to Patient £3

65. On or about July 21, 1987, Patient #3, a fifty (50) year—
old female with a history of leg crhmps, shortness of breath and
angina pectoris on exertion, first presented to Respondent
complaining of sluggishness. Patient #3'5 current medications at
that time included Estrogen for menopausal syndrome.

66. Respondent performed a physical examination which
revealed that Patient #3 had an enlarged thyroid and lower back
pain. Respondent then diagnosed Patient #3 with the following
conditions: hypothyroidism; menopausal syndrome; osteoporosis; and

angina pectoris.

15

 

67. Respondent’s medical records fail to disclose the
documentation for these diagnoses.

68. Respondent ordered Patient #3 to undergo extensive
endocrine studies including screens for T3 (triiodothyronine), TSH
(thyroid-stimulating hormone), FT4I (free thyroxine index), FSH
(follicle-stimulating hormone), LH (luteinizing hormone),
Estradiol, and Progesterone.

69. Respondent diagnosed Patient #3 with angina pectoris,
however, Respondent failed to order Patient #3 to undergo an
electrocardiogram (EKG), the basic study indicated in the
evaluation of angina pectoris.

70. On or about July 28, 1987, Respondent ordered Patient #3
to undergo Gadolinium-153 scans of her lumbar spine, right hip and
femoral neck. Respondent also ordered Patient #3 to undergo a
Thallium myocardial scan with cold pressbr stress test.

71. Patient #3's endocrine studies proved within normal
limits. Respondent found Patient #3'5 FSH and LH to be elevated
secondary to menopause. Patient #3:; lumbar spine scan showed no
evidence of scoliosis, however, Respondent found the lumbar and hip
scans to be consistent with osteoporosis. Respondent also
interpreted Patient #3’5 myocardial scanning to be normal.

72. On or about August 31, 1987, Patient #3 presented to
Respondent complaining of abdominal pain. Respondent referred
Patient #3 to Dr. Lerer for a gastrointestinal consultation. Dr.
Lerer administered a barium enema to Patient #3 which revealed a

questionable polyp. Dr. Lerer ordered Patient #3 to undergo an

16

 

abdominal ultrasound which found evidence of cholelithiasis
(gallstones). Dr. Lerer than recommended that Patient #3 undergo
colonscopy with removal of possible polyp.

73. On or about October 20, 1987, Patient #3 presented to
Respondent. Respondent ordered Patient #3 to undergo bone and
joint scans to rule out arthritis and/or metastatic disease to the
bone. These studies included the following scans: the AP, right
and lateral head; right shoulder; left shoulder; right elon; and
left elbow. Respondent interpreted these radiographic studies to
be positive for arthritis. Respondent then prescribed Feldane 20
mg, one capsule per day, and ordered Patient #3 to undergo repeat
hormone studies including screenings for FSH, LH and Estradiol.

74. Respondent states on the X—ray report that Patient #3
requested the bone scans for evaluation of pains in the head, left
elbow and left shoulder.

75. Respondent, however, failed to document any complaints
related to arthritis in the medical record. Specifically,
Respondent failed, in fact, to docunent any complaints whatsoever
in proximity to these studies in his progress notes. In addition,
Respondent failed to document any symptoms of arthritis in Patient
#3's medical records. Respondent also failed,to document a medical
examination of Patient #3 at that time, or any clinical basis for
his diagnosis of rule out metastatic disease to the bone.

76. On or about December 3, 1987, Patient #3 was involved in
a motor vehicle accident and presented to Respondent complaining of

dizziness and soreness on her left side.

17

 

77. Respondent performed a physical examination of Patient #3

found that Patient #3 was experiencing muscle spasms and tenderness
of the left sacroiliac joints. Respondent ordered Patient #3 to
undergo bone and joint scans including scans of the feet, thoracic
spine, scans of the AP, left and lateral head, right hip, left hip,
right shoulder, left shoulder, sacroiliac joints and scans of the
right lateral, left lateral and PA cervical spine. Respondent
interpreted these studies to be positive for stress fracture at C4
with inflammation and positive for inflammation of the thoracic
spine, sacroiliac joints and feet.

78. Respondent then billed for an extended office visit,
however, the medical records show only that the aforementioned
diagnostic studies were performed.

79. On or about December 16, 1987, Patient #3 presented to
Respondent complaining of pain in herzright foot. Respondent
discontinued Patient #3’5 Feldene and prescribed Motrin for her
pain.

80. On or about December 24, }987, Patient #3 presented to
Respondent’s office for Diathermy therapy (heating of the body
tissues due to their resistance to the passage of high-frequency
electromagnetic radiation, electric currents. or ultrasonic waves)
for her joint pains. Respondent’s technician administered
Diathermy to Patient #3 for 30 minutes for a total of 30 units.

81. On or about December 29, 1987, Patient #3 presented to
Respondent complaining of right sacroiliac joint pains. Respondent

hypnotized Patient #3 in an attempt to help her decrease her

18

cigarette intake from 22 to 10 per day. Respondent then
administered Diathermy to Patient #3'5 sacroiliac regions for 15
minutes for a total of 20 units.

82. Between January 11, 1988 and March 22, 1988, Patient #3
presented to Respondent’s office for seven (7) subsequent Diathermy
therapy treatments.

83. On or about March 22, 1988, Respondent advises in the
medical records that Patient I3’s lower back pain has been relieved
by the Diathermy therapy. Respondent's medical records do not
mention Patient #3’5 tobacco usage or whether the hypnosis had any
effect.

84. On or about October 13, 1988, Patient #3 presented to
Respondent complaining of severe headaches and a productive cough.
Respondent ordered repeat Gadolinium scans of Patient I3's lumbar
spine and femofal neck which indicated decreased bone minéral‘
content.

85. On or about October 31, 1988, Respondent ordered Patient
#3 to undergo bone and joint scans including scans of the head,
cervical spine, right shoulder, left shoulder, thoracic spine,
lumbar spine, right knee, left knee, sacroiliac joints, right wrist
and left wrist. _

86. On or about December 15, 1983, Patient #3 presented to
Respondent complaining of lower back pain. Respondent then ordered

repeat hormone studies including screenings for FSH, LH and

Estradiol) as well as blood glucose and Glycohemoglobin tests.

19

 

 

87. Respondent failed to document any muscoskeletal symptoms
in Patient #3's medical records at that time.

88. On or about January 5, 1989, Patient #3 presented to
Respondent complaining of back pain. Respondent ordered Patient #3

to undergo repeat hormone studies including screens for FSH, LH and

Estradiol.

89. Respondent’s billing records for the aforementioned visit
indicate that Respondent charged Patient #3 for an extended 6ffice
visit and listed the following diagnoses codes: primary
hypothyroidism; and mitral insufficiency. Respondent's medical
records, however, fail to disclose the documentation for these
diagnoses.

90. On or about February 3, 1989, Patient I3 presented to
Respondent complaining of sluggishness and fatigue. Respondent
ordered Patient #3 to undergo répeafythyroid studies including
screenings for T3, T4, T30, FT41 and TSH as well as a SMAC 24 test.

91. On or about May 11, 1989, Patient [3 presented to
Respondent complaining of upper ab?qminal symptoms. Respondent
ordered Patient #3 to undergo a gallbladder ultrasound which showed
chronic cholecystitis with stones.

92. On or about June 20, 1989, Respondent ordered Patient I]
to undergo a repeat Gadolinium scan of her lumbar spine.
Respondent failed to document any discussion with Patient I3
regarding this scan’s findings. The scan found Patient IJ'S lumbar
spine to be homogenous with an increase in Patient [3's bone

density.

20

93. On or about June 26, 1989, Respondent’s progress notes
state that Patient #3 has a history of mitral valve prolapse and
that she requested that Respondent evaluate this condition.
Respondent then ordered Patient #3 to undergo an echocardiogram
(ECHO) .

94. Respondent billed Patient #3 for an extended office
visit, however, Respondent failed to perform a physical examination
of Patient #3 at that time.

95. Respondent failed to document any discussion with Patient
#3 regarding the results of her ECHO in the medical records.

96. Respondent, who is board certified in nuclear medicine,
has no formal training to perform or interpret echocardiography.

97. On or about November 16, 1989, Respondent progress notes
state that Patient #3 had been on Didronel, however, there is no
previous notation in the medical recofds which refers to this
therapy having been initiated.

98. On or about March 8, 1990, Patient #3 presented to
Respondent complaining of abdominal cramps, three weeks in
duration. Respondent performed a physical examination and referred
Patient #3 to Dr, Lerer for a gastrointestinal consultation.
Respondent then instructed Patient #3 to adheye to a bland diet and
prescribed Pepsid, Carafate, and Provera.

99. Respondent’s billing records for the period of time that
Patient #3 remained under Respondent’s care (July 21, 1987 to March

8, 1990) indicate that Respondent consistently unbundled the

charges for numerous hormone studies and bone and joint scans for

21

maximal reimbursement (i.e., Respondent billed for each diagnostic
test or study individually).

100. Between July 21, 1987, and January 19, 1988, the
diagnosis of angina pectoris appears on all claim form, however,
Respondent’s medical records fail to disclose the documentation of
this diagnosis for those visits. In addition, between March 24,
1988, and October 31, 1988, all of Respondent's billinq records
list acute cholecystitis as a working diagnosis of Patienf {3's
condition. Between October, 1988, and March 8, 1990, Respondent
listed the diagnosis of chronic cholecystitis on his billing
statements. Respondent always charged Patient #3 for extended
office visits during these time periods, however, Respondent's
medical records fail to reveal that either diagnosis was evaluated
on all the dates listed. Respondent’s medical records also fail to
disclose the Hétéssary documentation to warrant his charges‘fo‘t””‘"r
extended office visits.

101. On numerous and diverse occasions, Respondent
consistently ordered excessive and unnecessary in-office diagnostic
studies and testing to evaluate Patient 33's complaints. However,
Respondent performed only limited physical examinations of Patient
#3 and documented only minimal histories in ghe medical records to
justify the extensive testing done on Patient #3.

COUNT TEN

102. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

through four (4), sixty-five (65) through one-hundred one (101) as

if fully set forth herein this Cpunt Ten.

22

 

this Agreement (i) shall have force and effect unless a Final Order approving the
Agreement is entered by the Board or, (ii) if the Agreement is not approved, shall be
considered or referenced for any purpose in any subsequent administrative or judicial
proceeding between the parties on the subject matters of this Agreement.

9. Dr. Stemberg may appear thr0ugh counsel at the time this Agreement is
considered by the Board.

10. If the Board approves this Agreement, Dr. Stemberg and the Department
waive all further procedural steps and rights of judicial review. and each agrees not to
challenge or contest either the validity of the Agreement or the Final Order of the
Board approving the Agreement.

11. The parties agree that each will beat his or its own attorney's fees and
costs in these proceedings, and that neither will seek to recover attorney's fees 0r costs
from the other in connection with these proceedings.

12. If this Agreement is not approved by the Board, it is jointly agreed that the
fact of presentation to and consideration of this Agreement by the Board shall not
prejudice either party in any way, and the Board and any of its members shall not be
disqualiﬁed from further participation, consideration or resolution of proceedings in

which the subjects of this Agreement are involved.

 

103. Respondent failed to keep written medical records
justifying the course of treatment of Patient #3 in that on
numerous and diverse occasions, Respondent repeatedly failed to
adequately document patient histories, physical examinations or
specific symptoms related to Patient #3’5 various complaints to
justify his extensive testing, diagnoses and office visit charges.

104. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, failing to keep wtitten
medical records justifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or
administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations.

COUNT ELEVEN

105. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through four (4), sixty—five 465) through one-hundred one (101),
one-hundred three (103) as if fully set forth herein this Count
Eleven.

106. Respondent failed to practiqe medicine with that level of
care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances in that ResponQent diagnosed Patient
#3 with angina pectoris, however, Respondent failed to order
Patient #3 to undergo an electrocardiogram (EKG), the basic study
indicated in the evaluation of angina pectoris. On numerous and
diverse occasions, Respondent failed to perform physical

examinations to evaluate Patient #3’5 various complaints and,

23

 

instead, relied on extensive testing and radiographic studies in
making his diagnoses.

107. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, gross or repeated
malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that level of
care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances.

COUNT TWELVE

108. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through four, sixty—five (65) through one—hundred one (101), one-
hundred three (103) and one-hundred six (106) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Twelve.

109. Respondent exercised influence on Patient #3 in such a

'ﬁhhnér as to exploit Patient #3 for financial "gain‘ in that
Respondent’s billing records for the period of time that Patient #3
remained under Respondent's care (July 21, 1987 to March 8, 1990)
indicate that Respondent consistently unbundled the charges for
numerous hormone studies and bone and joint scans for maximal
reimbursement (i.e., Respondent billed Patient #3 for each
diagnostic test or study individually). In_addition, Respondent
repeatedly billed Patient #3 for extended office visits, however,
the medical records fail to disclose adequate documentation to
justify the charges for this level of service.

110. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated

_ section 458.331(1)(n), Florida Statutes, exercising influence on

24

 

the patient or client in such a manner as to exploit the patient or
client for financial gain of the licensee or of a third party,
which shall include, but not be limited to, the promoting or
selling of services, goods, appliances, or drugs.

COUN: THIRTEEN

111. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through four (4), sixty-five (65) through one-hundred one (101),
one—hundred three (103), one-hundred six (106) and one-hundred nine
(109) as if fully set forth herein this Count Thirteen.

112. Respondent practiced or offered to practice beyond the
scope permitted by law or accepted and performed professional
responsibilities which the licensee knows or has reason to know
that he is not competent to perform in that on or about June 26,
1989, Respondent ordered Patient [3 to undergc an echocardiogram
(ECHO). However, Respondent, who is board certified in nuoiearz*
medicine, has no formal training to perform or interpret
echocardiography.

113. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(v), Florida Statutes, practicing or offering to
practice beyond the scope permitted by law or accepting and
performing professional responsibilities whiph the licensee knows
or has reason to know that he is not competent to perform.

COUN F0 EEN

114. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

through four (4), sixty-five through one-hundred one (101), one—

hundred three (103), one-hundred six (106), one—hundred nine (109)

25

 

and one-hundred twelve (112) as if fully set forth herein this
Count Fourteen.

115. Respondent failed to perform any statutory or legal
obligation placed upon a licensed physician in that on numerous and
diverse occasions, Respondent consistently ordered excessive and
unnecessary in—office diagnostic studies and testing to evaluate
Patient {3's while performing and/or documenting only minimal
histories and physical examinations of Patient #3 in the medical
records to justify the extensive testing done on Patient #3.

116. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(1)(g), Florida Statutes, failing to perform any
statutory or legal obligation placed upon a licensed physician in
that Respondent violated the provisions of Section 766.111, Florida
Statutes.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

  
    

/
* //
SIGNED this 1/ day of L. ' , 1993.
George 5 Secretary

FILED [7

Department of Professional Regulation , 1" cPherson, v 3r.

f Medical Attorney

   

mm: ”W "C 26

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

chief Medical Attorney

Department of Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750
Florida Bar #788643

RCP/rb

PCP: April 16, 1993

Rodriguez, Murray and Slade

27

 

13. This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding and agreement of the

parties, and no prior oral statements or acts of the parties shall survive Board approval

of the Agreement.

DATED: August 9-61 , 1993

 

STATE OF N 3'0“ “’wa )
\ ) SS:
COUNTY OF K QA1 A~ _)

Befoye me, personally appeareﬁ/{oshua L Sternberg, MD. who is known to me
by D m ERS L1 c M c: F (type of identiﬁcation) and who, under

oath, acknowledges that his/her sxgnature appears above.

. . 1
Sworn to and subscnbed before me thls ‘1 day of August, 1993.

.1

/' < /
5“ ﬁotary gblic

iSMC RACH
mmi ‘ Exp‘ ~ NOTARY much sun c= NEW YORK
My CD 5510” ”es. NO, 24 - 4&7‘3275
QUALlFlED m mes comm W
COMMSSIQ‘I EXPRES MARCH 304 19 ......

/
DATED: W4 , 1993 DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL

REGULA'HOI‘RR ,7

 
   
  

G. McPherson, Jr.
ief Attorney. Medical Section

:Mn-u-mx nun. Multan:

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,
PETITIONER,
vs. V CASE NO. 0092833
JOSHUA L. STERNBERG, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT
COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as “Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against

JOSHUA L. STERNBERG, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent,"
and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0013446. Respondent’s last known address is
16751 N.E. 6th Avenue, Medical Service Center, North Miami Beach,
Florida 33162.

3. On or about January 17, 1987, Patient #1 presented to
Respondent’s home complaining of a respiratory ailment.

4. Respondent accompanied Patient #1 to her home where he

1

