F“':;’“>

Denadwwn"’ ' '“~'w- ‘ezubﬁon

AGZ- ‘? :<
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULAT ON
(ga7e_.—’
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL CLERK
REGULATION,

BOARD OF MEDICINE c’
E {(349-90
DAT
Petitioner,

0%»
DPR CASE NUMBER: 7004591

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0020881
MIGUEL OVIEDO, M.D.,

 

_v5_

Respondent.

/
M
rINAL ORDER

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board)

pursuant to Section 120.57(3),

Florida Statutes, on November 30,

1990, in Kissimmee, Florida,

(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties

in the above-styled case. Upon consideration of the Stipulation,

the documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the

parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises,

Accordingly, the parties shall

adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the
Stipulation.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the
Department.

DONE AND ORDERED this [(4 day of M,1990.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

MARGAégT C.S. SKINNERf‘M.D.

CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified mail to Miguel
Oviedo, M.D., 2804 Knollwood Lane, Glenview, Illinois 60025—2749
and Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., 77 West Washington Street, Suite
916, Chicago, Illinois 60602—2868 and by interoffice delivery to
Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Attorney at Law, Department of
Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe

Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792, at or before 5:00 P.M.

this 2%?) day of! ££Q,\)v\\/Jt/ , 1990.

K: ~

I

  
    
 

Orders/OviedoM

I affirm that these statements are true and
gorrect and recognize that providing false
Information may result in a fine, suspension or

revocation of my license as provided in Florida
Statutes 455.2275, 775.082, or 775.084.

9. The aforementioned statement was required as part of

the renewal process for the licensing period from January 1,

1988, through December 31, 1989. without this statement,

Respondent could not have renewed his license to practice

medicine in Florida.

10. Thereafter, Respondent successfully renewed his
license to practice medicine in Florida. That renewal was based,

in part, on the aforementioned statement regarding completion of

Continuing Medical Education.

11. Thereafter, Respondent was selected randomly for audit
purposes to verify his continuing medical education for the
period covered in his statement (January 1, 1986 through December

31, 1987). By letter dated November 30, 1988, Respondent was

asked to provide such verification.

12. On or about December 29, 1988, Respondent submitted to

the Board documentation of his Continuing Medical Education
without any documentation of the required risk management credits

for the relevant time period. Respondent also submitted a letter

that states,—in part, the following:

I am at the other end of the CME activities;
I teach more than I attend meetings. I do teach
more than 100 hours per year, as an instructor
in physical diagnosis for the sophomore class.
I teach a total of 18 weeks, four hours each
week. I also give scheduled lectures to the
freshmen, sophomore and junior surgical students
at Northwestern. I teach a total of fours hours

to the orthotic class at the Rehabilitation
Institute Of Fhirann

I am enclosing copies of all my continuinc

medical education hours obtained for the years
1986—1987. v 'v ‘

American College of Surgeons Clinical Congr==

_.s,

which was held in Chicago between October 24 and
October 28, 1988. If necessary, I will be glad
to attend one full day of disciplinary hearings
at a regular meeting of the Board of Medicine.
As part of my hospital activities, I am the

Chairman of the Medical Records Committee at
Swedish Covenant Hospital in Chicago. I am
also a member of the Committee on Cancer and
am active with the management of the Tumor
Registry at Swedish Covenant Hospital.

CQHNI_QNE

13. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one ‘

(1) through twelve (12) as if fully set forth herein this Count

One.

management credit of his continuing medical education for the
period from January 1, 1986, through December 31, 1987, in
response to the Board's random audit, and thereby failed tc
comply with Rule 21M-28.002, Florida Administrative Code.

15. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331(1)(x), Florida Statutes, by violating
any provision of this chapter, a rule of the board or department,
or a lawful cider of the board of department previously entered
in a disciplinary hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully
issued subpoena of the department.

CQUNI_IEQ
16. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one

I1\ +hva..~|. a...,.1._- .‘a. . -

herein this Count Two.

17. Respondent renewed his license by fraudulent
misrepresentation, in that Respondent falsely certified that he
completed the continuing medical education requirements for the

period from January 1, 1986, through December 31, 1987.

18. Based on the preceding,allegations, Respondent

violated Section 458.331(1)(a), Florida Statutes, attempting to
obtain, obtaining, or renewing a license to practice medicine by
bribery, by fraudulent misrepresentations, or through an e:ror of

the department or the board.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent‘ 5 license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this ﬁf’uay of I LéA— , 1990.

Larry Gonzalez, Secretary

_ Law

Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

FILED

Department of Profﬁss ona! Regu. Ation
AGENCY CLE?K

51., to 6%,

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson

Senior Attorney
Florida Bar No. 788643
Dept. of Professional Regulation

1940 N. Monroe Street, Ste. 60
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792
(904) 488-0062

ﬁBG/ecs
7/2 790

STATE OF FLORIDA
OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT 0F PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

DEPARTMENT

Petitioner,

VS.

DPR CASE NO. 90—04591
MIGUEL OVIEDO, M.D.,

Respondent.

N/

SIIEHLAIIQH

referred to as Respondent,
Department of Professional Regulation,

Miguel Oviedo, M.D., and phe

referred to as Department,
stipulate and agree to the following joint Sti

pulation and Final
Order of the

Board of Medicine, referred to as

Respondent was a
licensed physician in the State of Florida having been issued

license number ME 0020881.
2.

filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent witn

violations of Chapter 458,

Florida Statutes, and the rules

enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the

Administrative Complaint is attached and

incorporated by
reference as Exhibit A.

U-

~~~~e.’

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the
allegations of fact contained in the Administrative Complaint

attached as Exhibit A.

W

1. Respondent, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, admits that in shch capacity he is subject to the
provisions of Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the
jurisdiction of the Department and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the

Administrative Complaint, attached hereto as Exhibit "A”, if

Iproven, constitute violations of Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative Complaint.
SIIRHLAIHlJHSEQSIIIQN
1. Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters
455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated
pursuant thereto.
2. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in

the amount one thousand dollars ($1,000) against the

3. The Respondent shall personally appear when this

stipulation is considered by the Board of Medicine and

been completed. If Respondent cannot demonstrate compliance,

C—t

~"»«~-

his license to practice medicine shall be suspended until such

time as he can demonstrate full compliance with the

CME

requirements for licensure renewal.
4. Prior to appearing before the board, the Respondent
shall submit to the Department such receipts, vouchers,

7. Respondent shall attach to subsequent applications
for license renewal, cOpies of such receipts, vouchers,

certificates or other papers to document completion of the CME

requirements.

9. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the
meeting of .the Board where this Stipulation is considered.
Respondent, 'in conjunction with the consideration of this
Stipulation by the Board, shall respond to questions under

oath from the Board, Board Staff or Department Staff.

10. Should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement
made in furtherance of this Stipulation, by the Respondent
may be used as direct evidence against the Respondent in any
proceeding; however, such statements may be used by the
Petitioner for impeachment only. ‘

11. Respondent and the Department fully understand that
this joint Stipulation and subsequent Final Order
incorporating same will in no way preclude additional
proceedings by the Board and/or the Department against the
Respondent for acts or omissions not specifically set forth in
the Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit "A" herein.

12. Upon the Board‘s adoption of this Stipulation,
Respondent expressly waives all further procedural steps, and
expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to
otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the joint
Stipulation of facts, conclusions of law and imposition of
discipline, and the Final Order of the Board incorporating
said Stipulation.

13. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation, the
parties hereby agree that each party will bear his own

attorney's fees and costs resulting from prosecution and/or

defense of this proceeding. Respondent waives the right to

respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes

the Board to review and examine all investigative file

materials concerning Respondent prior to or in conjunction
with consideration of the Stipulation. Furthermore, should
this joint stipulation not be accepted by the Board, it is
agreed that presentation to ‘and consideration of this_
Stipulation and other documents and matters by the Board shall
not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or any of its
members from further participation, consideration or

resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED this :xw'LK-gay of 5' wﬁkﬁw 1. , 1990.

\ \

EVE“ ﬂy _\\, “Ki“.
Miguel Oviedo, M.D.

Sworn to and subscribed
before me this QZY‘Hay

1989.

 
 
 

 

'OFFICIAL SEAL'
PATRICK BRISCDLL. JR.

lulu Public. sun at Illinoi-
lIy Collusion kph“ 2/1/92

   

N TARY PUBLIC

My Commission Expires:2-(-?L

APPROVED this ?CHuday of g' (3% g, , 1990.

Larry Gonzalez
Secretary

wag

Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
_ BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

V CASE NO. 9004591

MIGUEL OVIEDO, M.D.,
Respondent.
M/
ADMINIEIBAIIEE_CQMELAINI

COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against Miguel Oviedo, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes, Chapter 455, Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto a licensed physician in the;5tate of Florida, having been
issued license number ME 0020881. Respondent's last known
address is 2804 Knollwood Lane, Glenview, Illinois 60025—2749.

3. Pursuant to Section 455.213(5), Florida Statutes, as a
condition of renewal of a license, the Board of Medical Examiners
(Board of Medicine) shall require licensees which it regulates to
periodically demonstrate their professional competency by

completing at least forty (40) hours of continuing education

every two (2) years, of which at least five (5) hours shall

concern risk management. Criteria for, and content of,

..

continuing education courses shall be approved by the Board.

4. Pursuant to Rule 21M—28.002, Florida Administrative
Code, every physician licensed pursuant to Chapter 458, Florida

Statutes, shall be required to complete forty (40) hours of

continuing medical education approved by the Board in the twenty-
four (24) months preceding each biennial renewal period as

established by the Department. At least five (5) of such

continuing medical education hours required for renewal shall

A

concern risk management.

5. Pursuant to Rule 21M-28.002(2)(a), Florida
Administrative Code, risk management means the identification,
investigation, analysis, and evaluation of risks and the
selection of the most advantageous method of correcting,
reducing, or eliminating, identifiable risks.

6. Pursuant to Rule 21M—28.002(3), Florida Administrative
Code, part of the application for renewal shall include a form on
which the licensee shall state that he has completed the required
continuing education. Additionally, the licensee must retain
such receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other papers, such as
physician reqognition awards issued by the American Medical
Association, as may be necessary to document completion of the
continuing medical education listed on the renewal form for a
period of not less than four years from the date the course was

taken. The Board will randomly audit such numbers of licensees

as is necessary to assure that the continuing education

requirements are met.

7. Pursuant to Rule 21M-28.002(5), Florida Administrative

Code, the following courses have been approved by the Board of

Medicine for continuing education:

a. Organized courses approved for American Medical

Association Category I Continuing Medical Education credits or

accepted for the American Medical Association physician

recognition award.

b. Any postgraduate training program accredited by the

Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education.

c. The following specialty training: American College

of Emergency Physicians, Category I; American Academy of Family

Physicians prescribed credit; and American College of

Obstetricians and Gynecologists cognates.

8. On or about December 21, 1987, Respondent signed the

following statement which was thereafter submitted as part of the

request to renew his license to practice medicine:

I hereby certify that during the period
January 1, 1986, through December 31, 1987, I
have obtained no fewer than forty (40) hours of
continuing medical education courses which meets
the requirement of Chapter 455.213(5), Florida
Statutes, and Rule 21M—28.002(6) Florida
Administrative Code. I further certify that at
least five (5) of the forty (40) hours concern
risk management pursuant to Rule 21M—28.002(2)
Florida Administrative Code. I understand that
I must maintain such receipts, vouchers,
certificates, or other papers to document
completion of the CME requirements for a period

of not less than four (4) years from the date the

course was taken.

