  

BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL

  

REGULATION, CLERK 0L.__...._

V. DPR CASE NUMBER: 90-0689

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0017815
NATALIO DAMIEN, M.D.,

Respondent.
/

FINAL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on December 8, 1991, in
Miami, Florida, for consideration of a Stipulation (attached hereto
as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the above—styled
case. Upon consideration of the Stipulation, the documents
submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the parties, and
being otherwise advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulation as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the

Stipulation.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Department.
DONE AND ORDERED this 8 day Egaﬂédé , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

I
' l
ZACHARIAH 3%? ZACWM. D .

CHAIRMAN

 

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Natalie Damien, M.D.,
65 Mitchell Place, Little Sliver, New Jersey 07739—1607 and Robert
J. Conroy, Esquire, Kern, Augustine, Conroy & Eséle, P.C., 1120
Route 22 East, Bridgewater, New Jersey 08807 and by interoffice
delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney,
Department of Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North

Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, at or before 5:00

P.M., this {3% day of )gchﬂ/jb , 1991.

    
   

B‘bRoﬁy J .ﬁe'mﬁzcm'm
Executive Director

 

.l

:2 ..L:.: n. V. I. ;'

AA

E..L\

m .20

-m- u-

:36.

7‘
: .

7. Pursuant to Rule 21M—28.002(6), Florida Administrative
Code, the following courses have been approved by the Board of

Medicine for continuing education:

a. Organized courses approved for American Medical

Association Category I Continuing Medical Education credits or

accepted for the American Medical Association physician

recognition award.

b. Any postgraduate training program accredited by the
Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education.

c. The following specialty training: American College
of Emergency Physicians, Category I; American Academy Of Family
Physicians prescribed credit; and American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists cognates.

8. On or about November 1, 1987, Respondent signed the

following statement which was thereafter submitted as part of the
request to renew his license to practice medicine:

I hereby certify that during the period
January 1, 1986, through December 31, 1987, I
have obtained no fewer than forty (40) hours of
continuing medical education courses which meets
the requirement of Chapter 455.213(5), Florida
Statutes, and Rule 21M—28.002(6) Florida
Administrative Code. I further certify that at
least five (5) of the forty (40) hours concern
risk management pursuant to Rule 21M~28.002{2)
Florida Administrative Code. I understand that

II must maintain such receipts, vouchers,
certificates, or other papers to document
completion of the CME requirements for a period
Of not less than four (4) years from the date the
course was taken.

I affirm that these statements are true and
correct and recognize that providing false
information may result in a fine, suspension or
revocation of my license as provided in Florida
Statutes 455.2275, 775.082, or 775.084.

 

 

1
S

5%

9. The aforementioned statement was required as part of
the renewal process for the licensing period from January 1,
1988, through December 31, 1989. Without this statement,
Respondent could not have renewed his license to practice
medicine in Florida.

10. Thereafter, Respondent successfully renewed his
license to practice medicine in Florida. That renewal was based,
in part, on the aforementioned statement regarding completion of
Continuing Medical Education (CME).

ll. Thereafter, Respondent was selected randomly for audit
purposes to verify his continuing medical education for the
period covered in his statement (January 1, 1986 through December
31, 1987). By letter dated November 30, 1988, from the Executive
Director for the Board of Medicine, Respondent was asked to
provide such documentation.

12. On or about June 19, 1990, Respondent submitted a
letter stating that he had previously sent all such
documentation. However, this documentation was never received.
On or about July 11, 1990, an investigator contacted Respondent
and informed him of the aforementioned. The investigator
requested that Respondent re—submit the required documentation of
the CME. Since then Respondent has failed to submit the
aforementioned documentation.

l3. Respondent failed to maintain such receipts,
vouchers, certificates, or other papers to document completion of
the CME requirements for the relevant time period, and thereby

failed to submit the required documentation for the Board's

random audit.

 

.1

,3;

M.“ “ENE

11

_( [2 INT QNE

14. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through thirteen (13) as if fully set forth herein this Count
One.

’15. Respondent violated a rule of the Board, in that
Respondent failed to maintain and submit documentation verifying
his continuing medical education, including the risk management
credit, for the period from January 1, 1986, through December 31,
1987, in reSponse to the Board's random audit, and thereby failed
to comply with Rule 21M—28 002, Florida Administrative Code.

16. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331(1)(X), Florida Statutes, by violating
any provision of this chapter, a rule of the board or department,

Or a lawful order of the board of department previously entered

issued subpoena of the department.
CQUNT IﬂQ

174 Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through thirteen (l3) and fifteen (15) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

18. Respondent renewed his license by fraudulent
misrepresentation, in that Respondent falsely certified that he
completed the continuing medical education requirements for the
period from January 1, 1986, through December 31, 1987.

19. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.33l(l)(a), Florida Statutes, attempting to

obtain, obtaining, or renewing a license to practice medicine by

ﬂu

hum:

'ﬂ

4
u

 

ﬁn

 

bribery, by fraudulent misrepresentations, or through an error of
the department or the board.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent 5 license,
restriction of the Respondent‘s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any Other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this /Zﬁ&day ofﬁZLkazaouéi4/A , 1990.

Larry Gonzalez Secretary

 

 

By: Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

F I { C F)
COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT: / ' I “ L ~
""*"xenf 0.‘ Profegs anal ??egu’ation
Larry G. McPherson AGENCYCLERK

Senior Attorney

Florida Bar No. 788643 £5”

Dept. of Professional Regulation g (gaﬁl__,,
1940 N. Monroe Street, Ste. 60 ‘W

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792 '

(904) 488—0062
:275 _. .*
CJR/jp/tc

PCP: December 14, 1990
Katims

Wells

Vitale

 

 

‘9,

i; 1322“ IE ;

KM ii Esi-mii E41: LJi

mu

math 5..»

n» M tau

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
v.
DPR CASE NO. 90-006899
NATALIO DAMIEN, M.l).,

Respondent.
/
M

STIPULATION
NATALIO DAMIEN, M.D., the Respondent, and the Department of
Professional Regulation, referred to as Department, stipulate and agree to the following
joint Stipulation and t0 the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred
to as Board, incorporating this Stipulation and the Agreement in this matter.
STIPULATED FACTS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed physician in the
State of Florida having been issued license number ME 0017815.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint filed by the
Department and properly served upon Respondent with violations of Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, and the rules enacted pursuant thereto, A true and correct copy of the
Administrative Complaint is attached hereto and incorporated by reference as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of fact contained in

the Administrative Complaint attached hereto as Exhibit A.

hmumg

miami-

STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. Respondent, in his capacity as a licensed physician, admits that in such
capacity he is subject to the provisions of Chapter 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the
jurisdiction of the Department and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the allegations relating to Count One of the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute a violation of Chapter
458.331(1)(x), Florida Statutes, as alleged.

3. The Department agrees to voluntarily dismiss Count Two of the
Administrative Complaint, upon the Board's acceptance of this Stipulation.

STIPULATED DISPOSITION

1. Respondent shall not in the future Violate Chapters 455, 458, and 893,
Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated pursuant thereto.

2. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in the amount of $1,000.00
against the Respondent. The fine shall be paid by the Respondent to the Executive
Director of the Board within thirty (30) days of the imposition by Final Order of the
Board.

3. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand from the Board of Medicine.

4. Within six months of the filing of the Final Order incorporating the terms
of this Stipulation, Respondent shall submit documentation to demonstrate his compliance
with all of the continuing education requirements for the 1988-1989 licensing biehniums.
Documentation that the Respondent has "made up" the continuing education requirements
for the relevant periods shall satisfy this requirement. Such documentation shall consist
of certified copies of the receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other papers, such as the
physician‘s recognition awards issued by the American Medical Association, as may be

2

A

nm:

.2»

awn m.

Kt.

V “mm“:

necessary to document completion of the continuing education. All such documentation
shall be sent tu_the Board of Medicine. Attn: Constance CampbglLreggdless of whether
some or amf such documentation was previoulemovided during thuourse of any
audit or discumn with counsel for the Department. In the event that Respondent fails
to timely document compliance with all of the continuing education requirements for the
relevant time periods Respondent's license to practice medicine shall be suspended until
such time as documentation of compliance is received by the Board.

5. Within six months of the filing of the Final Order incorporating'the terms
of this Stipulation, Respondent shall attend five (5) hours of Category I Continuing
Medical Education courses in the area of Risk Management. Respondent shall submit
a written plan to the Chairman of the Probationer's Committee for approval prior to the
completion of said continuing education hours. The Board confers authority on the
Chairman of the Probationer‘s Committee to approve or disapprove said continuing
education hours. In addition, Respondent shall submit documentation (in the form of
certified copies of receipts, vouchers, certificates or other papers, such as the Physician's
Recognition Awards issued by the American Medical Association as may be necessary
to document completion of the continuing education) of completion of these continuing
medical education courses within six months of the entry of the Final Order in this
matter. All such documentation shall be sent to the Board of Medicine,_Attn: Constance
mbejhregﬂgless of whether some or anLgf such documentation was p_reviou§Iy
piggided durigg_the course of any__audit or discussion with counsel for themartment.
These hours shall be in addition to those hours required for renewal of licensure. Unless
otherwise approved by the Board, said continuing education courses shall consist of a
formal live lecture format. In the event that Respondent fails to timely document

3

‘11s. 4.,

   

completion of the Risk Management courses, Respondent's license to practice medicine
shall be suspended until such time as documentation of compliance is received by the
Board.

6. If Respondent renews his license at theend 0f the 1990-1991 biennium,
Respondent shall be required to document compliance with the continuing education
requirements for that period. Such documentation shall consist of certiﬁed copies of the
receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other papers, such as the physician‘s recognition awards
issued by the American Medical Association, as may be necessary to document
completion of the continuing education. All such documentation shallm sent to the
Board of Medicine,_A_ttn:_C_onstance CampliﬂL reggdless of whether some orgy of
such docuantation was ﬂeviously mvided duri__ng_the course of ar_1y_audit or discussion
with cgunsel for the Department.

7. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply with the terms of the
Final Order issued based on this Stipulation. Such costs include, but are not limited to,
the cost of preparation of investigative reports detailing compliance with the terms of
his Stipulation. See Section 458.331(2), Florida Statutes.

8. It is expressly understood that this Stipulation is subject to the approval of
the Board and the Department. In the regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the
foregoing paragraphs of the Stipulated Facts, Stipulated Conclusions of law and
Stipulated Disposition) shall have no force and effect unless a Final order is entered
incorporating the terms of this Stipulation, by the Board.

9. Should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement made in furtherance of this

Stipulation, by the Respondent may be used as direct evidence against the Respondent

w.
m r"? .,

Ti

1.; ‘43)}

.i‘a‘.‘

VT? in any proceeding. However, such statements may be used by the Petitioner for
impeachment only.

a

E 10. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this joint Stipulation

and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will in no way preclude additional

 

At

proceedings by the Board and/or the Department against the Respondent for acts or

admissions not specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit

"A" herein.

magi mu

11. Upon the Board‘s adoption of this Stipulation, Respondent expressly waives

all further procedural steps, and expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or

hialﬂ

to otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the joint Stipulation 0f Facts, Conclusions

msu

of law and imposition of discipline, and the Final Order of the Board incorporating said

sari

Stipulation.

km?

12. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation, the parties hereby agree that
5 each party will bear his own attorney's fees and costs resulting from prosecution and/or

defense of this proceeding. Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney‘s fees or

Ant. ”:3

costs from the Department in connection with this disciplinary proceeding.

13. This Stipulation is executed by the Respondent for the purpose of avoiding
I further administrative action with respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent
authorizes the Board to review and examine all investigative ﬁle materials concerning
Respondent, as well as any factual statements provided by Respondent or Respondent's
counsel, prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the Stipulation. Furthermore,
should this joint Stipulation not be accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presen-

tation t0 and consideration of this Stipulation and other documents and matters by the

Board shall not unfairly 0r illegally prejudice the Board or any of its members from

further participation, consideration or resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED this 26 day of ﬂow ¢w//'” , 1991.
_.__ ___,*_

r

A J
77ch QWMW/

NATALIO DAMIEN, M.D.

 

Sworn to and Subscribed
before me this ’26 day
Of ,//:&*..//'//,_'.7“ , 199].

x" I c f V ‘\ ' ,« \
'42] LL44, I//. 4(165’zi/‘é’ V,
NOTARY PUBLIC

/

My Commission Expires: 5C1"; /t// /77J

APPROVED this /02 day of 5432M ,1991.

George Stuart/
Secretary

 
 
  

 

     

By‘ ry G. McPher
Chief Medical Attorney
Medical Section

LAG/avs

A.

r'—,r ; 5“

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
CASE NO. 90-006899
v.
NATALIO DAMIEN, M.D.

Respondent.
l
_ ..... /

ADMINISTRATIVE SQMPLAINT

COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as ”Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board Of Medicine
against NATALIO DAMIEN, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
”Respondent,“ and alleges:

1‘ Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes, Chapter 455, Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida

Statutes .

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material

hereto a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been
issued license number ME 0017815. Respondent's last known
address is 65 Mitchell Place, Little Silver, New Jersey, 07739—

1607.

3. Pursuant to Section 455.213(5), Florida Statutes, as a
condition of renewal of a license, the Board of Medical Examiners
(Board Of Medicine) shall require licensees which it regulates r0
periodically demonstrate their professional competency by

completing at least forty (40] hours of continuing education

1

i
a

 

"5.1%

 

every two (2) years, of which at least five (5) hours shall
concern risk management. Criteria for, and content of,
continuing education courses shall be approved by the Board.

4. Pursuant to Rule 21M-28.002, Florida Administrative
Code, every physician licensed pursuant to Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, shall be required to complete forty (40) hours of
continuing medical education approved by the Board in the twenty—
four (24) months preceding each biennial renewal period as
established by the Department. At least five (5) of such
continuing medical education hours required for renewal shall
concern risk management.

5. Pursuant to Section 21M—28 002(2)(a), Florida
Administrative Code, risk management means the identification,
investigation, analysis, and evaluation Of risks and the
selection of the most advantageous method of correcting,
reducing, or eliminating, identifiable risks.

6. Pursuant to Section 21M~28.002(3), Florida
Administrative Code, part of the application for renewal shall
include a form on which the licensee Shall state that he has
completed the required Continuing education. Additionally, the
licensee must retain such receipts, vouchers, certificates, or
other papers, such as physician recognition awards issued by the
American Medical Association, as may be necessary to document
completion of the continuing medical education listed on the
renewal form for a period of not less than four (4) years from
the date the course was taken. The Board will randomly audit
such numbers of licensees as is necessary to assure that the
continuing education requirements are met.

2

