  

Wﬂhn

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULéEIO-

BOARD OF MEDICINE .
x\ / > 0
JJL/mf

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL GLEN

REGULATION, _‘ .-
am M
Petitioner,

—VS— DPR CASE NUMBER:H9UE£904
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0020685

 

STEPHEN G. GOLDBERGER, M D.,
Respondent.

/

gym; ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board)
pursuant to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on June 2, 1991,
in Orlando, Florida, for consideration of a Stipulation (attached
hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the
above—styled case. Upon consideration Of the Stipulation, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Stipulation as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the
StipulaLicn.

This Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of the

Department.

DONE AND ORDERED this day Of , 1991.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

 

//,—u
)l mu /'
@7}/’rl’/,./I
ZACHARI P. ZACHARIAH, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY bust a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Order has been provided by certified U.S. mail to
Stephen G. Goldberger, M.D., 8313 Crown Court Road, Alexandria,
Virginia 22308—1527, and by interoffice delivery to Larry G.
McPherson, Jr., Acting Chief Medical Attorney, Department of
Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe
Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, at or before 5:00 P.M.,

this day of

, 1991.

 

DOROTHY J. FAIRCLOTH
Executive Director

7. Pursuant to Rule 21M-28.002(5), Florida Administrative
Code, the following courses have been approved by the Board of
Medicine fcr continuing education:

a. Organized courses approved for American Medical
Association Category I Continuing Medical Education credits or
accepted for the American Medical Association physician
recognition award.

b. Any postgraduate training program accredited by the
Accreditation Council f3: Graduate Medical Education.

c. The following specialty training: American College
of Emergency Physicians, Category I; American Academy of Family
Physicians prescribed credit; and American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists cognates.

8. On or about March 28, 1988, Respondent signed the
following statement which was thereafter submitted as part of the
request to renew his license to practice medicine:

I hereby certify that during the period

January 1, 1986, through December 31, 1987, I

have obtained no fewer than forty (40) hours Of

continuing medical education courses which meets

the requirement of Chapter 455.213(5), Florida

Statutes, and Rule 21M—28.002(6) Florida

Administrative Code. I further certify that at

least five (5) cf the forty (40) hour, concern

rink management pursuant to Rule 21M—28.002(2)

Florida Administrative Code. I understand that

I must maintain such receipts, vouchars,

Certiflcctea, or other papers to document

completion of the CHE requirements for a period

of not less than tﬁur (4) years from the date the
course was taken.

ﬂ" 1' 1 ' 3

x ,
uuu.:

I affirm that these statements are true and
correct and recognize that providing false
information may result in a fine, suspension or
revocation of my license as provided in Florida
Statutea 455.2275, 775.082, or 775.084.

9. The aforementioned statement was required as part Of
the renewal process for the licensing period from January 1,

1988, through December 31, 1989. Without this statement,
lespondent could not have renewed his license to practice
medicine in Florida.

10. Thereafter, Respondent successfully renewed his
license to practice medicine in Florida. That renewal was based,
in part, on the aforemen;ioned statement regarding completion of
Continuing Medical Education.

11. Thereafter, Respondent was selected randomly for audit
purposes to verify his continuing medical education for the
period covered in at: statement (January 1, 1985 through Decan$er
31, 1987).

12. On or about March 27, 1990, Respondent submitted a
letter indicating his intent to comply with the request to
provide documentation of his Continuing Medical Education for the
geriod of January 1, 1986, through December 31, 1987. Attached
to the letter was Reapondent's documentation for his Continuing
Medical Education credits; however, he failed to submit
documentation for the required risk management credits for the

relevant time period and fourteen (14) hours of the required

continuing medical education credits for the same time period.

a" ‘ 7 4

u'u‘JIW

CQHNIHQNB

1]. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through twelve (12) as if fully set forth herein this Count
One. ‘

14. Respondent violated a rule of the Board, in that
Respondent failed to submit documentation verifying his
cont1nuing medical educat1on for the period from January 1, 1986,
through December 31, 1987, in response to the Board's random
audit, and thereby failed to comply with Rule 21M-28.002, Florida
Administrative Code.

15. Based or the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 458.331(1)(x), Florida Statutes, by violating
any provision of this chapter, a rule of the board or department,
or a lawful order of the board of department previously entered
in a disciplinary hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully
issued subpoena of the department.

CQHHI_IEQ

16. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one
(1) through twelve (12) and fourteen (14) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

17. Respondent renewed his license by fraudulent
misrepresentation, in that Respondent falsely certified that he
eompleted the continuing medical education requirements for the
period from January 1, 1986, through December 31, 1987.

18. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent
violated Section 453.331(1)(a), Florida Statutes, attempting to

obtain, obtaining, or renewing a license to practice medicine by

OP.~\-.¢ 5

Uu'UI-J

bribery, by fraudulent misrepresentations, or through an error of
the department or the board.

WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one Or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

/ I
SIGNED this érﬁtday of €h~L£A€4e_ , 1990.

Larry Gonzalez, Secretary

W

By: Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Medical Attorney

 

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT: F I L E D
Larry G. McPherson Depanmenmf PWMSWMIRESMNM
Senior Attorney AGENCYCLERK
Florida Bar No. 788643

Dept. of Professional Regulation C/ hQ C;

1940 N. Monroe Street, Ste. 60 C; aqi,—e’
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792

(904; 458—0062 CLERK Ch

CJR/BG/ecs DAT£——_—L£—9—Q————
d:ecs

7/27/90

-44,

STATE. OF FLORIDA ”~27“. ’
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE W35

’l 1|

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,

v. DOAH CASE NO.: 90-6329
DPR CASE NO.: 90—6904

S'Q'EPHEN C. <33’L-DBFRGEK, MIL,

R“ ?speﬁdc.) L

_...___./
STIPLJL_ATION

STEPHEN G. GCLDBERGER, the Respondent, and the Department of
Professional Regulation, referred to as Department, stipulate and
agree to the following joint Stipulation and to the entry of a
Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as Board,
incorporating this Stipulation and the agreement in this matter.

ST PU TED F CTS

1. At all t;mes material hereto, Respondent was a licensed
physician in the State of Florida having been issued license number
HE 0020685.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules enacted
pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative
Complaint is attached hereto and incorporated by reference as
Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of

CC“.

fact contained in the Administrative Complaint attached hereto as
Exhibit A.

4. This Stipulation includes facts alleged in the complaint
attached hereto, but also includes deficiencies,if any, concerning
risk management CME's for the 1988—1989 renewal period.

STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. Respondert, in his capacity as a licensed physician,

admits that in such capscity he is subject to the provisions of

s 455 anj 453, Fletida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the

 

Department and the Board,

2. ‘espondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, constitute violations of
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative
Complaint.

STIPULATED DISPOSITION

1. Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters 455,
458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated pursuant
thereto.

2. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in the
amount of $1,500.00 against the Respondent. The fine shall be paid
by the Respondent to the Executive Director at the Board within
thirty days of the imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3‘ The Pespcndeht shall receive a reprimand from the Board
of Medicine.

4. Within six months of the filing of the Final Order
incorporating the terms of this Stipulation, Respondent shall

submit documentation to demonstrate his compliance with all of the

C244.

continuing education requirements for the 1986 - 1987 and 1988 -
1989 licensing bienniums. Such documentation shall consist of
certified copies of the receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other
papers, such as the physician's recognition awards issued by the
American Medical Association, as may be necessary to dochment
completion of the continuing education. In the event that
Respondent fails to timely document compliance with all of the
sunfiauing education reguirements for the relevant time periods

.{owdent 3 license to practice medicine shall be suspended until

 

such time as documentation of compliance is received by the Board.

5. within six months of the Filing of the Final Order
incorporating the terms of this stipulation, Respondent shall
attend 5 hours of Category I Continuing Medical Education courses
in the area of risk management. Respondent shall submit a written
plan to the Chairman of the Probationer's Committee for approval
prior to the completion of said continuing education hours. The
Board confers authority on the chairman of the Probationer's
Committee to approve or disapprove said continuing education
courses. In addition, Respondent shall submit documentation (in
the form of certified copies of receipts, vouchers, certificates,
or other papers, such as the physician's recognition awards issued
by the American Medical Association, as may be necessary to
document completion of the continuing education) of completion of
these continuing medical education courses within six months 3f the
entry of the Final Order in this matter. These hours shall be in
addition to those hours required for renewal of licensure. Unless

otherwise approved by the Board or the chairman of the

p
Veggq

Probationer's Committee, said continuing education courses shall
consist of a formal live lecture format. In the event that
Respondent fails to timely document completion of the risk
management courses Respondent‘s license to practice medicine shall
be suspended until such time as documentation of compliance is
received by the Board.

6 Prior to renewing his license at the end of the 1990 —

  

  

1:91 biennium, Responc ht shall be required to document compliance

w;th the ca

1'

.1

F I

Juing education requirements for that period. Such

"I

4
documentation shall consist of certified copies of the receipts,
vouchers, certificates, or other papers, such as the physician's
recognition awards issued by the American Medical Association, as
may be necessary to document completion of the continuing
education.

7. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply with
the terms of the Final Order iseued based on this Stipulation.
Such costs include, but are not limited to, the cost of preparation
of investigative reports detailing compliance with the terms of

this Stioulation.

m

8. It is expressly understood that this tipuiation is
subject to the approval of the Board and the Departmen;. In this
regarding the foregoing paxagraphs (and only the foregoing
paragraphs 2f the Stipulated Facts, stipulated Conclusions of Law
and stipulated Disposition} shall have no force and effec unless

a Final Order is entered incorporating the terms of this

Stipulation, by the Board.

CCJ '

9. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting
whereat this Stipulation is considered. Respondent, in conjunction
with the consideration of this Stipulation by the Board, shall
respond to questions under Oath from the Board, Board Staff or
Department Staff. I

10. Should this Stipulation be rejected, no statement made
in furtherance of this Stipulation by the Respondent may be used

as direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding.

 

evec, such statements may be used by the Petitioner for
impeachvent purposes(

11. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this
joint Stipulation and subsequent Final Order incorporating same
will in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board and/or
the Department against the Respondent for acts or admissions not
specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as
Exhibit "A" herein.

12. Upon the Board's adoption of this Stipulation, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps, and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
co.:est the validity of the joint Stipulation of facts, conclusions
of law and imposition of discipline, and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Stipulation.

13. Upon the Poard's adoption of this Stipulation, the
parties hereby agree that each party will bear his own attorney‘s
fees and costs resulting from prosecution and/ﬁr defense of this

proceeding. Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's

fees or costs from the Department in connection with this
disciplinary proceeding.

14. This Stipulation is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent, as well as any factual statements provided by
Respondent or Respordent's counsel, prior to or in conjunction with
consideration of the Stipulation. Furthermore, should this joint
Stipulation not be accepted by the Board, it is agreed that
presentation to and consideration of this Stipulation and other
documents and matters by the Board shall not unfairly or illegally
prejudice the Board or any of its members from furthe:

participation, consideration or resolution of these proceedings.

I

    
 
  

SIGNED this 2 day of johA-JQr—l , 199p.
C 3 ( ’

    

EN G.
RESPONDENT

GOLDBERG

Sworn to and subscribed
bef re me this ’2 day
Of Mr, 199?.i
,— |\t
Maj ’3 \ri‘.’ ’Q :Qﬂ“!
N5TARY FUBLIC Q
My Commission Expires: 5350qu

APPROL’E‘D this /§{L’E‘ay of (ﬁgﬂcg , 1990.
J. . 7 W3, SW

 

Secretary

W

By: Stephanie A. Daniel
Chief Attorney
Medical Section

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

Petitioner,
CASE NO. 9006904
v.

STEPHEN G. GOLDBERGER, H.D.,

Respondent.

/
ADMLUW

 

COMES NOW, the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner,“ and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against Stephen G. Goldberger, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent,“ and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes, Chapter 455, Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material
hereto 5 licnnaed physician in the State of Florida, having been
issued license number ME 0020685. Respondent's last known
address is 3313 Crown Court Road, Alexandria, VA 22308-1527.

3. Pursuant to Section 455.213(5), Florida Statutes, a5 a
condition of renewal of a license, the Board of Medical Examiners
(Board of Medicine) shall require licensees which it regulates to
periodically demonstrate their professional competency by
completing at least forty (40) hours of continuing education

every two (2) years, of which at least five (5) hours shall

n“ »\ l
Q~w-./

concern riak management. Criteria tor, and content of,
conthuing education courses shaLL be approved by the Board.

4. Pursuant to Rule 21M—28.002, Florida Administrative
Code, every physician licensed pursuant to Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, uhall be required to complete forty (40) hours of
continuing medical education approved by the Board in the twenty—
four (24) months preceding each biennial renewal period as
established by the Department. At least five (5) of such
continuing medical education hours required for renewal shall
concern risk management.

5. Pursuant to Rule 21M—28.002(2)(a), Florida
Administrative Code, risk management means the identification,
investigation, analysis, and evaluation of risks and the
selection of the most advantageous method of correcting,
reducing, or eliminating, identifiable risks.

6. Pursuant to Rule 21M—28.002(3), Florida Administrative
Code, part of the application for renewal shall include a form on
which the licensee shall state that he has completed the required
continuing education. Additionally, the licensee must retain
such receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other papers, such as
physician recognition awards issued by the American Medical
Association, as may be necessary to document completion of the
continuing medical education listed on the renewal form for a
period of not less than four years from the date the course was
taken. The Board will randomly audit such numbers of licensees
as is necessary to assure that the continuing education

requirements are met.

