FlLED

Depanment o( Busmess and Protesswona': Regulation
DEPUTY CLERK

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND /‘

e, //i//

PROFESSIONAL REGULATIOlfl/ﬂ , —
BOARD OF MEDIC NE ~ ‘ . /A V 'k’ ‘5"
I CLERK\ u’ C'Crﬁ ‘ f ‘
.- (ﬂ

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND M
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION, DATE
Petitioner,

V. DBPR CASE NUMBER: 92-02270
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0042709

ANGELA MARY GARCIA, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER Came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on December 3, 1993, in
Boca Raton, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in
the above—styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent
Agreement, the documents submitted in support thereof, the
arguments of the parties, and being otherwise advised in the
premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED thatythe Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and

incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall

adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the

Consent Agreement.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Department.

Dom; AND ORDERED this q day §\Il Lhdqu , 1993.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

{0 " \(r/ /7 ,
Amt , Lb mun

EDWARD A. DAUER, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Angela Mary Garcia,
M.D., 7074 Bera Casa way, Boca Raton, Florida 33433, Bonnie Eyler,
Esquire, Suite 1150, 5900 North Andrews Avenue, Ft. Lauderdale,
Florida 33309—2300‘ and by interoffice delivery to Larry G.
McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney, Department of Business and
Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe

Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, at or before 5:00 P.M.,

this Q) day of lkg gﬂﬂ L/ , 1993.

./ 4/4/42” ’ Q'W
/ 1., a /

MARM M. HARRIS, Ph.D.
Executive Director

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT OF BUBiNESB AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,

Petitioner,

v. DOAH CASE NO. 93-2931
DBPR CASE NO. 92-2270

ANGELA GARCIA, 24.0.,

Respondent.

 

/

CONSENT AGREEMENT

ANGELA GARCIA, M.D., referred to as the "Respondent," and the
Department of Business and Professional Regulation, referred to as
"Department," stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and to
the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as
"Board," incorporating the stipulated Facts and stipulated
Disposition in this matter.

EILBQLAI§Q_EAQI§

1. At all times material hereto, Resﬁondent was a licensed
physician in the State of Florida having been~issued license number
ME 0042709.

2. Respondent was Charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules enacted
pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative
Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of

fact contained in the Administrative Complaint.

§_’I‘_I_PU_L}\TED CONcLugoNs MW

1. Respondent admits that, in her capacity as a licensed
physician, she is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and
458, Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department and
the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute violations of
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative
Complaint.

STIPULATED DISPOSITION

1. FUTURE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the future
violate Chapters 455, 458, and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto.

2. Elﬂﬁ; The Board shall impose an administrative fine in
the amount of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) against the
Respondent. The fine shall be paid by the Respondent to the Board
of Medicine within thirty (30) days of its imposition by Final
Order of the Board.

3. EVIEW. Prior to the Board’s considetation of this
Consent Agreement, the Respondent shall review Section 455.241,
Florida Statutes and shall forward an affidavit attesting to that
review to the Board for its consideration.

4. Prior to the Board’s consideration of this Consent
Agreement, Respondent shall provide a complete copy of the medical

records requested by the Complainant to the Complainant and shall

execute an affidavit attesting to that fact and forward said
affidavit to the Board for its consideration.

5. It is.expressly understood that this Agreement is subject
to the appfoval of the Board and the Department. In this regard,
the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs) shall
have no force and effect unless a Final Order incorporating the
terms of this Agreement is entered by the Board.

6. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting of
the Board where this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in
conjunction with the consideration of this Agreement by the Board,
shall respond to questions under oath from the Board, Board Staff
or Department Staff. The Respondent shall be prepared to explain
the circumstances involved in this matter and what measures have
been taken to prevent a recurrence.

7. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by the Respondent may be used as
direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding; however,
such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment
purposes.

8. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this
joint Agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will
in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board and/or the
Department against the Respondent for acts or omissions not
specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint, attached as

Exhibit A herein.

9. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreement, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps and expressly waives
all rights to seek_judicial review of, or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of, the Agreement and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Agreement.

10. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will beat his own attorney’s fees and
costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney’s fees or costs
from the Department in connection with this matter.

11. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the
Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by
the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or

any of its members from further participation, consideration or

resolution of these proceedings.

CZLWDdEZL I 1993,

Qywwh/ngw

Angela Garcia,

Before me, personally appeared 1.; Eu: H- émxlc/A n.0,
(type of

whose identity is known to me by 13%1épua
identification) and who, under oath, acknowledges that his/her

signature appears above.
and subscribed before me this gigt day of

Sworn to
_£>c_nz22xv____, 1993.
" ' 5N0 YPUBLIC

- . TARY 52A;-
~ w ¢ '
. . 17/9; ’
i day of , 1993.

George Stuart
Secretary

SIGNED this /ﬂ" day of

My Commission Expires:

  

APPROVED this

  
  

    

 

ry . McPherson,
ief Attorney
Medical Section

 
  

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

PETITIONER,
v3. CASE NO. 9202270
ANGELA GARCIA, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMISIEIBAIIYELﬁQMBLAIEI

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as ”Petitioner," and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
Angela Garcia, H.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent," and
alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number KB 0042709. Respondent’s last known address is 7074
Bera Casaway, Boca Raton, Florida 33433.

3. Respondent’s area of medical specialty is internal
medicine.

4. Section 455.241, Florida Statutes, provides that any

health care practitioner licensed pursuant to chapter 457, 458,

459, 460, 461, 462, 463, 464, 466, part I or part II of chapter
484, 486, or 491 who makes a physical or mental examination of, or
administers tpeatment to, any person shall, upon request of such
person or his legal representative, furnish, in a timely manner,
without delays for legal review, Copies of all reports and records
relating to such examination or treatment, including x—rays and
insurance information.

5. In or about December of 1991, Patient fl'a father
requested the medical records of his eight (8) year old son
(Patient #1) from Respondent.

6. Respondent failed to forward Patient [1’s medical records
until on or about March 17, 1992.

7. On or about July 28, 1992, the Department of Professional
Regulation issued a Citation to Respondent for failure to release
Patient fl’s records to Patient [1 or Patient [1’s legal
representative in a timely manner.

8. The Citation ordered Respondent to pay a fine of one-
hundred dollars ($100.00).

9. Respondent failed to pay the fine ordered by the
Department. I

10. On or about August 18, 1992, the Department received
notification from Respondent that she had forwarded Patient [1’5
records to his attorney, and that any further contact should be
made with complainant’s attorney. It is thereby determined that

Respondent is in dispute of the Citation ordered by the Department.

ll. Respondent violated provisions of Chapter 455 in that he
failed to release Patient [1's medical records to Patient [1 or his
legal represehtat1ve in a timely manner, contrary to Section
455.241, Florida Statutes.

12. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331 (1) (g), Florida Statutes, failing to perform any statutory
or legal obligation placed upon a licensed physician.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

  
    

deems appropriate.

\
SIGNED this 4&L} day ogg,

 

arr G. McPhersoﬁé‘Jg.

Chi-f Medical Attorney

   

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.
Chief Medical Attorney
Department of Professional Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street F l L E D
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750

23733: B“ "88643 Department of Professional Regulahon
PCP: February 25, 1993 DEPUTY CLE

  

 

Rodriguez, Murray and Slade

CLER
DATE

