STATE OF FLORIDA Final Order No. BPR-94-03695 Dale W
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIC FILED
BOARD OF MEDICINE Dept of Business and Professional Regulation
AGENCYCLERK

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND rah Wachman, A ency Clerk
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION, wa
Petitioner,

V. . DBPR CASE NUMBER: 92-02220
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0055898

JOSE MANUEL GARCIA, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on June 3, 1994, in Palm
Beach, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement (attached
hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the above-
styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent Agreement, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises, the Board
rejected the Consent Agreement proposed and offered an amendment at
the hearing, which amendment was accepted without objection by the
parties.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein with the amendment that the fine
as set forth in Paragraph 2 of the stipulated Disposition shall be
deleted and Respondent shall receive a Letter of Concern from the
Board. Accordingly, the parties shall adhere to and abide by all

of the terms and conditions of the Consent Agreement, as amended.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Department.

DONE AND ORDERED this 93M \ Mﬂq , 1994.

 

BOARD OF MEDICINE

g; g 1:1:ﬁ5211’1 ”4/9 74
ED ARD A. DAUER, M. D.

CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Jose Manuel Garcia,
M.D., 523 Via Centia, Punta Gorda, Florida 33950, Mark A.
Dresnick, Esquire, Grand Bay Plaza, Suite 201, 2665 South Bayshore
Drive, Miami, Florida 33133—5402, and by interoffice delivery to
Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney, Department of
Business and Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North
Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, at or before 5:00

P.M., this (kj% day of \k0& , 1994.

// _.. '

MARM M. HARRIS, Ed.D.
Executive Director

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: permanent revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s
license, restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.
SIGNED this day of // , 1993.
_. __C____._

Georgeﬁtﬁﬁ, Secretary

4
/

 

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Chief Medical Attorney

Department of Business and Professional Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750

Florida Bar #788643

FW/co

PCP: October 27, 1993

Katims, Diblen, and Fenwick F I L E D

Depaltmant of Business and Professional Regulation
DEPUTY CLERK

oArs___J_L:43_—_.

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DBPARTNENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,

Petitioner,

V. DBPR CASE NO: 92-02220

JOBE MANUEL GARCIA, H.D.,

Re spondent .

/
cons: 168 r.

JOSE MANUEL GARCIA, M.D. , referred to as the "Respondent," and
the Department of Business and Professional Regulation, referred to
as "Department," stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and
to the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to
as "Board," incorporating the stipulated Facts and stipulated
Disposition in this matter.

W

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed
physician in the State of Florida having been issued license number
HE 0055898.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida statutes, and the rules enacted
pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative

Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of

fact contained in the Administrative Complaint.
Wm

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458,
Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department and the
Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute violations of
Chapter 458, Florida statutes, as alleged in the Administrative
Complaint.

ST D SP SITIO

1. EQEURE CQNQQQI, Respondent shall not in the future
violate Chapters 455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto. Prior to signing this agreement, the
Respondent read Chapters 455, 458 and 893 and the Rules of the
Board of Medicine, at Section 61F6, Florida Administrative Code.

2. EIHEL The Board shall impose an administrative fine
in the amount of Two Thousand Dollars ($2,000.00) against the
Respondent. The fine shali be paid by the Respondent to the Board
of Medicine with 180 days of its imposition by Final Order of the
Board.

3. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject
to the approval of the Board and the Department. In this regard,
the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs) shall

have no force and effect unless a Final Order incorporating the

terms of this Agreement is entered by the Board.

4. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting of
the Board where this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in
conjunction with the consideration of this Agreement by the Board,
shall respond to questions under oath from the Board, Board Staff
or Department Staff. The Respondent shall be prepared to explain
the circumstances involved in this matter and what measures have
been taken to prevent a reoccurrence.

5. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by the Respondent may be used as
direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding; however,
such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment
purposes.

6. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this
joint Agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will
in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board and/or the
Department against the Respondent for acts or omissions not
specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as
Exhibit A herein.

7. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Agreement.

8. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, the parties

hereby agree that each party will hear his own attorney's fees and

costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's fees or costs
from the Department in connection with this matter.

9. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the
Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by
the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or
any of its members from further participation, consideration or
resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED this Q5 day of

, 1994.

fag.

      
    

Beforeme,persona11yap ared \ CLAA1:CLa ,
whose identity is known to me by (type of
identification) and who, under oath, acknowledges that his/her
signature appears above.

Sw rn to and subscribed before me this £2 244‘ ‘day of
ﬁg ijg 4% , 1994.
OTARY PU LIC

My Commission Expires:C}Lp

STACY COLEMAN EDMONSON
4 5: = MYGOMMSSBNIDCRMG‘I!

Wrmmﬁﬂ

 

APPROVED this U” day of gﬂ , 1994.

George Stuart
Secretary

      

By: L rry G. McPherson, Jr.

hief Attorney
Medical Section

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT 0? BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

PETITIONER,
vs. CASE NO. 9202220
JOSE MANUEL GARCIA, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

AQElElﬁIBAIlYELQQMBLAlEI

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Business and
Professional Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner,"
and files this Administrative Complaint before the Board of
Medicine against Jose Manuel Garcia, H.D., hereinafter referred to
as "Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the
practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.165, Florida Statutes;
Chapter 455, Florida statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto a
licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0055898. Respondent's last known address is 523
Via Centia, Punta Gorda, FL, 33950.

3. On or about November 5, 1990, the New Jersey Board of
Medical Examiners denied Respondent’s application to practice
medicine in that state based on the New Jersey’s finding that
Respondent submitted an altered and, therefore, fraudulent

transcript.

4. The New Jersey Board of Medical Examiners is the licensing
authority for the state of New Jersey.

5. The Department did not receive notification letter from
Respondent advising of same within the required thirty (30) day
period.

6. Respondent, upon having been denied licensure to practice
medicine in another jurisdiction, failed to report said denial to
the board, in writing, within the appropriate time pereod.

7. Respondent's denial of licensure violates Section
458.331(1)(b), Florida Statutes, having a license or the authority
to practice medicine revoked, suspended, or otherwise acted
against, including the denial of licensure, by the licensing
authority of any jurisdiction, including its agencies and
subdivisions.

8. Respondent’s fauilure to notify the Department of said
denial of licensure violates Section 458.331(1)(kk), Florida
Statutes, failing to report to the board, in writing, within 30
days if action as defined in paragraph (b) has been taken against
qne’s license to practice medicine i another state, territory, or
country.

COUNT ONE

9. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through eight (8) as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

10. Respondent is guilty of being denied licensure to
practice medicine in another jurisdiction by the appropriate

licensing authority.

11. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(b), Florida Statutes, by having a license or the
authority to practice medicine revoked, suspended, or otherwise
acted against, including the denial of licensure, by the licensing
authority of any jurisdiction, including its agencies and
subdivisions.

COUNT TWO

12. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through eight (8) as if fully set forth herein this Count Two.

13. Respondent is guilty of, after being denied licensure to
practice medicine in another jurisdiction by the appropriate
licensing authority, failing to notify the board, in writing,
within the required thirty (30) day period.

14. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(kk), Florida Statutes, by failing to notify the board,
in writing, within 30 days if action as defined in paragraph (b)
has been taken against one's license to practice medicine in

another state, territory, or country.

