STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

Final Order No. AHCA~94~80| mm M
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE “LED
ADMINISTRATION , BOARD OF Agency for Health Care Administration
MEDICINE I AGENCY CLERK
R‘S. Power, Agenc Clerk
Petitioner, BV‘W ?’L’W—
Dcpuly Agency Clerk
V. CASE NUMBER: 93-22710

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0064163
GURMEET DHILLON, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on December 3, 1994 in
Orlando, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in
the above-styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent
Agreement, the documents submitted in support thereof, the
arguments of the parties, and being otherwise advised in the
premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the

Consent Agreement.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Agency. jiqu/ 2)
DONE AND ORDERED this day W , 1994.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

WWW

EDWARD A. DAUER, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

 

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Gurmeet Dhillon, M.D.,
24 Doulgas Crescent, Post Office Box 414, Dowling, Ontario, Canada,
Pom 1R0, and by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr.,
Chief Medical Attorney, Agency for Health Care Administration,
Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida

- 01”“
32399—0792, at or before 5:00 P.M., this " day of

ﬁncgmﬂﬂgg: , 1994.
m 72%.

MARM M. HARRIS, Ed.D.
Executive Director

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,

Petitioner,
VS. DBPR CASE NO. 93-22710
GURMEET DHILLON, M.D.,

Respondent.
/

CONSENT AGREEMENT

 

GURMETT DHILLON, M.D., referred to as the "Respondent," and
the Department of Business and Professional Regulation, referred to
as "Department," stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and
to the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to
as "Board," incorporating the stipulated Facts and stipulated
Disposition in this matter.

STIPULATED FACTS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed
physician in the State of Florida having been issued license number
ME 0064163.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules enacted
pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative
Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of

fact contained in the Administrative Complaint.

STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed
physician he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458,
Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department and the
Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute violations of
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative
Complaint.

STIPULATED DISPOSITION

1. FUTURE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the future
violate Chapters 455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto. Prior to signing this agreement, the
Respondent read Chapters 455, 458 and 893 and the Rules of the
Board of Medicine, at Section 61F6, Florida Administrative Code.

2. £132; The Board shall impose an administrative fine in
the amount of Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00) against the
Respondent. The fine shall be paid by the Respondent to the Board
of Medicine within 180 days of its imposition by Final Order of the
Board.

3. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject
to the approval of the Board and the Department. In this regard,
the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs) shall
have no force and effect unless a Final Order incorporating the

terms of this Agreement is entered by the Board.

4. Respondent shall not be required to appear before the
meeting of the Board where this agreement is considered. Instead,
Respondent shall prepare a written statement to the Board
explaining the circumstances involved in this matter and what
measures have been taken to prevent a reoccurrence.

5. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by the Respondent may be used as
direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding; however,
such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment
purposes.

6. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this
joint Agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will
in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board and/or the
Department against the Respondent for acts or omissions not
specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as
Exhibit A herein.

7. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreement, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Agreement.

8. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will bear his/her own attorney’s fees
and costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney’s fees or costs

from the Department in connection with this matter.

L0

9. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the
Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and

consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by

the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or
any of its members from further participation, consideration or
resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED this 2,? day of W, 1994.

/ égEET DHILLON, M. D. :3:

Before me, personally appeared Lnb1/ﬂ4687f Z>L\ﬂ (V%\ ,
whose identity is known to me by Cf¥fzem$bmp (m/d (type of
identification) and who, under oath, acknowledges,:hat his/her
signature appears above.

 

 

  
 
 

Sworn to and subscribed before me

ﬁdﬂwmlxw’ , 1994 . //
I

(ﬂOTARY PUBLIC

 

My Commission Expires: py44-
APPROVED this Q day of W , 1994.

George Stuart
Secretary

W%

V: rry G. McPherson, Jr.
hief Attorney
Medical Section

 

§

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,
PETITIONER,
vs. CASE NO. 93~22710

GURMEET DHILLON, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

 

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Business and
Professional Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner,"
and files this Administrative Complaint before the Board of
Medicine against Gurmeet Dhillon, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent,“ and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.165, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0064163. Respondent’s last known address is 45
Traymoor Avenue, Kingston, Ontario, Canada K7L 4K9.

3. Pursuant.to Subsection 61F6-28.005 (formerly 2lM—28.005),
Florida Administrative Code, any physician who is required to
complete an educational course on human immunodeficiency

virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) as a condition

of initial licensure must submit a notarized statement attesting to
the completion of a three—hour Category I, American Medical
Association approved, Continuing Medical Education course.

4. Pursuant to Subsection 61—6.005 (formerly 21—6.012),
Florida Administrative Code, all active and inactive licensees are
required to keep Petitioner informed of any information which
Petitioner requires, including but not limited to the licensees
current mailing address.

5. In April of 1993, Respondent was certified for licensure
to practice medicine by the Board of Medicine (Board).

6. A license allowing Respondent to practice medicine was
subsequently activated with the condition that Respondent complete
a three-hour Category I, American Medical Association approved,
educational course on the topic of HIV/AIDS.

7. Respondent was required to submit documentation to the
Board verifying completion of the three—hour course by or about
October 5, 1993.

8. On or about December 21, 1993, Respondent was sent a
letter from Petitioner informing him that an investigation
concerning Respondent’s failure to submit the required course
docum7entation was being conducted.

9. On or about January 25, 1994, Petitioner’s letter was
returned unopened because Respondent had moved and a forwarding

address was not available.

10. Respondent has failed to submit any documentation
verifying that he has completed a three—hour course on the topic of
HIV/AIDS.

11. Respondent has failed to keep Petitioner informed of his
current mailing address.

COUNT ONE

12. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through eleven (11), as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

13. Respondent failed to perform a legal obligation placed
upon him in that Respondent violated Subsection 61F6—28.005,
Florida Administrative Code, by failing to perform the requirements
identified above in paragraph three.

14. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(l)(x), Florida Statutes, violating any provision of
this chapter, a rule of the board or department, or a lawful order
of the board or department previously entered in a disciplinary
hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully issued subpoena of the
department.

COUNT TWO

15. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through eleven (11) and thirteen (13), as if fully set forth herein
this Count Two.

16. Respondent failed to perform a legal obligation placed
upon him in that Respondent violated Subsection 61—6.00S (formerly
21~6.012), Florida Administrative Code, by failing to keep

Petitioner informed of his current mailing address.

17. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section 458.331(l)(x), Florida Statutes, violating any provision of
this chapter, a rule of the board or department, or a lawful order
of the board or department previously entered in a disciplinary
hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully issued subpoena of the
department.

WHERBFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: permanent revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s
license, restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

\
SIGNED this (9‘; day of W , 1994.

George Stuart, Secretary

 

 

Larr G. McPherson, Jr.
Ch' f Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.
chief Medical Attorney
Department of Business and Professional Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750 F I L E D
Florida Bar #788643 anmm‘mBmM%smdPmmﬁmmlhgmwm
FW/dr AGENCYCHRK

PCP: April 19, 1994
Katims, Diblan, Fenwick

CLERK gawk! “WM
o-‘zTEﬁiLQL

