 

STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION

D
BOAR OF M ﬁnal OrdrrNu.ﬁ1l§AA¢ﬁ-WH WM?“ ?_4'

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE FILED

L ‘ l‘ ‘ Admini- DIII
ADMINISTRATION, BOARD or “5“ 1:31-33:22}: “fl

MEDICINE J. -. u m Rams . {Jun II ‘
By: "" i ﬂﬂ £1 ' Sﬂq
Pet it inner , ./ Ewan Ascmy CE

V. CASE NUMBERS: 53*12936
93*20091
93-23U95

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0014157

MARVIN H. SHUSTER. I-I.D.,

Respondent.
i
EINAL DHQER
THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant

'to Section 120.570), Florida Statutes, on June 7, 199-5, in Miami
Beach, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement (attached
hereto as Exhibit A) entered into betwaen the parties in the above‘
styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent Agreement, the
ﬂocuments submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved anﬁ adapted in toto am]
incorpnrated by reference herain. Accurdingly, the parties shall
adhere. to and abide by all of the. terms and canditicns oi the

Consent Agreement.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Agency.

I- l
DONE AND ORDERED this L4 day .1 L-L’V‘Q" , 1996.

 

BOARD OF HEDICINF

I . r'. z :‘x

. i r,” '»

C. 5mm“ t. -’. IL,-

EDWARD A. DEUER, M-D.
VICE-CHRIRMAN

 

CERT CAT BERVIC
I HEREBY CERTIFY that.a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified v.5. Mail to Marvin H. shuster,
H.D., 4001 ﬁollywood Boulevard, Hollywood, Florida 33021, H. Dnhn
Williams, Jr., P.A., The 110 Tower, Suite 1T10, Pest Office Box
1722, New River Station, Ft. Lauderdala, Florida 33302 and by
intaruffice delivery ta Larry B. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical

Attorney, Agency for Health Care Administration, Northwood Centre,

’1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399h0792, at or

before 5:00 P.M., this day of , l996.

HARM M. HARRIS, Ed.D.
Executive Director

= (3412512995 99:54 38552555 H m alum meg

bonrdvcertitiod in the Respondent's specialty area unleee etheruine
provided by the Board.

9. W or "committee" are
neuhere u: the Board or Hedicina designated by the chairmen of the
Board to serve as the Probation Committee.

2- EEQHIBED_§EEEBEIEIQH-

n. It the terms at the consent agreement
include indirect monitoring or the licensees'e practice
(HONITORIHG) or direct monitoring at the licensees practice
(SUPERVISION), the Respondent shall not practice “c without an
approved noniterieupervisar, as specified by the Consent Agreement.
unlene otherwise urdered by the Board.

b. The mpnitorfsupervieor must he a licensee
under chapter ‘C, Florida Statutes, in quad standing and without
restriction or limitation On his license. In addition, the Board
at Committee may reject any proposed nonlturjsupervisor on the
haeie that he has previously been subject to any dieciplinary
action against his *c license in this or any ether jurisdiction, 15
currently under investigation, or is the subject or a pending
disciplinary action. The monitor/supervieor must be actively
engaged in the same at similar specialty ate: unless otherwise
prevlded by the Board or Committee and be practicing within a
reasonable distance of the Respondent‘s practice, a distance or no
mere than twenty (20) miles unless otherwise specifically provided
£9: in the caneent agreement. The Eaard er Committee may also

reject any proposed monitor/supervieor tor good cause shown.

3‘3

ﬂd-H'Zﬁflgﬁﬁ 39:5d 33552TSSBS H DEN WILLING P-f-‘Gr:

0- W.E_M_W&_ﬂ
WW:

[1)- Wm- The Board
conrnra authority on the Chairman or the Board‘s Probation
camittne tn tanpornrily apprnve Respondent's monitnr/aupurvlaor.
To obtain thi: temporary approval, Respondent. shall aubmit to the
muimln of the Probation Committee the name and curriculun vitae
of 1313 proposed monitorlﬁupervisor at. the time this agreement. is
considered by the Board. Once a Final order Adopting thin
nqrouont 1.“ £11“, hapondent shall not practice "a uithout I‘D
approvu mnitorjlupurvisox. Tonpuxary nppraval shall. only remain
in ctzwt until the nut meeting 0! thn Probation comittu.

[2). W. Respnndant shall
have thn manitur/nupawisor with him at his first probatian
appearance before the Probation committee. Prior tn consideration
or the monltnr/suparviior by the committee, the Respnmﬁent shall
provide to the mnnitorfsuparvisor a copy or the Administrative
Complaint and Final order in this case. Reapundent shall submit a
current curriculum vitae and a denaription of current practica from
the proposed nonitoruupervisnr to the Board office no later than.
(martian days before the Raspundent's tits: scheduled probation
appearance. Raspondent': nunitur]supe:visor 511311 also appear
bazaars the Probation Cumittn a: such ether times as directed by
the Comittzu. It shall be Respondent’s rasponaihility to ensure

that tho appearance of his nanitorfsuparvisor as directed. Failure

3‘4

Mraanaaa 09:54 38552'?5555 H 3}“ WILLIAMS F‘K‘JE

of tho ncnitar/suparvisor tn appear an directed shall canntitute a
violation ot the turns of this Stipulation and shall subject the
Ruipondant to dlaciplinary action.

d- QIWW. In the
Ivant that Respondent's aonitnrfauporvinor is unable or unwilling
to rulrill his ranponsibilities as a nanltor/supervisnr as
dcacrlbnd abova, than the Respondent shall immediately advise the
Board of this fact. Respondent shall immediately submit to the
chairman at the aoard’a Probation Committae the name or a temporary
monitorfaupnrvisor tar consideration. Respondent shall not
practice psnding approval or this temporary monitor/suparvinor by
tha Chairman of the Probation cammittaa. furthermbre, Renpandant
shall make arrangements with his temporary nonitur/ﬁuparviaar to
appear before the Probatinn Committee at its next regularly
scheduled nesting for consideration of the monitor/suparvlsat by
the Committee. Respondent shall only practice under the auspices
of thl temporary uanitorfaupurviaor (approved by tha Chairman)
until the nnxt regularly scheduled meeting of the Probation

Cnmmittoa uhereat the isaua of the Committee's approval a! the

anapandanb'a new monitoriaupervisor shall be addraased.

3. W
a. W. In the event the

Respondant leaves the State of Florida for a period of thirty days
or more or othnrwiﬂo does not Ingago 1n the active practice or “c
in the state or Florida. than certain provisions of Respondent's

probation [Ind only thoao provinionn Of the probation} shall he

5'5

Bér'2EIlQQEI 99:54 3655275555 H m HIIJJDMS FEE 13

tollod al tnunarated balcw and shall remain in a tolled status
until Respondent raturns to activn practice in the State or
Florida:

[1]. The time period of prabation shall
he tulled.

(2]. The provisions regarding supervision
whnther direct or indirect by another “c, and required reports {tom
the monitorinuparvinar nhall bu tolled.

{3). Tha provisions regarding preparation
of investigative rapnrta detailing conpliance with this Stipulation
shall ha tolled.

(x). Any provisions ragarding community
larviaa Ihlll he tolled.

h. agn;gz__23;911§3. In tha event that
Raapondent leaves tha active practice of “c for a period of one
year or more, the Probation Comnittea may require Respondent to
appear hafora the Fruhatinn Committea and demonstrate his ability
to practica “C with skill and safety ta patients prior to resuming
the practice or *c in this state.

Bdr‘EEMSGE. 35:54 33552?5565 H m HILLIMS FAG: _

tallest as anumerutmi balm and shall remain in a tolled status
until Raspundnnt returns to active practice in the stat: of
Florida:

{1). The time period of pruhatinn shall
ha tolled.

[2} . The provisions regarding suparvisicn
whether direct or indiract by another "C, and required reports from
ths munitorfauparviaor shall be tolled.

{J} . Thu provisions regarding preparation
or invastigative reports detailing compliance with this Stipulation
shall be tolled.

H]. Any provisions regarding community
service shall be tolled.

1:. W. In the event that
Respondﬂnt lemma the active practice of ‘c rm: :1 period a: one
yaar or non, tha- Prnbation Committee may raquire Respondent tr:
appear hetore the Probation Committee and demunstrate 1115 ability
to practice ‘c: with skill and safety to patients prior tn ramming
the practical at “C in this state.

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BEARD OF MEDICINE

RGENC! FOR HEALTH CARE
ADMINISTRATION,

PETITIONER.

V5. CASE NOS. 53-12935, 93-2009l

93-20096
MARVIN M. SHUSTER. M.D..

RESPONDENT.
I
______q__________________

ADMINISEBﬁTIUE COMPLAINT

COMES NOW the Petitioner. Agency for Health Care
Administration, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
Harvin H. Shuster, M.D., hereinafter referred to as “Respondent,"
and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the
practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.42, Florida Statutes;

Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 453. Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto a
licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0014157¢ Responaent’s last known addresa is 4001
Hollywood Boulevard, Hollywood, Florida 33021—5733.

3. Respondent is a Board Cartified plastic surgeon.

4. Section 453.329, Florida statutes, states,

Sexual misconduct in the practice of medicine means

violation of the physician-patient relationship through

which the physician uses said relationship to induce or
attempt to induce the patient to engage, or to engaga or

attempt to engage the patient, in sexual activity outside

1

the scope of the practice or treatment Df the patient.
Sexual misconduct in the practice of medicine is
prohibited.

cts Perta ' to atient P.S.

5. Patient F.S., a twanty-five {25] year old female,
presented tn Respondent on or about June 1?, 1993, for a
consultation about breast enlargement.

6. Respondent had Patient F.5. take off her shirt and bra,
and had Patient 3.5. put on anuther bra which he placed an implant

in on one side.

7. There was no nurse or chaperon present during Respondent‘s

examination of Patient F.s.

3. Respondent placed his hand inside the bra opposite the
implant.

9. Respondent rubbed Patient F.S.'5 breast, using his entire
hand, while asking her how it felt and if it excited her.

10. Patient F.S. removed Respondent's hand from her breast.

11. Respondent repeatedly took Patient F.S.’s hand and
stroked it with his hands.

12. Respondent asked Patient F.S. if she wanted more
children, and if she did that he could arrange that during the
hperation at no extra charge, implying that Respondent could have
intercourse with Patiant F.S. during the Operation while 5he was

unconscious.

Egggﬁ Pertgining to Patient V.ﬂ.

13. Patient V.M., a twenty (20) year old female, presented to

Respondent for liposuction surgery of her abdomen and follow up

examination on multiple occasions during the time period from on or
about February 11, 1993, through on or about July 16, 1993.

14. During Respondent’s examinations of Patient V.M., he had

her undrasg.

15. During several of Patient V.M.'s examinations, Raspondent
commented to Patient V.M., "let me see you strip baby", and would
assist Patient V.H. in removing her clothing.

15. There wa5 no nurse or chaperon present during
Respondent’s examination of Patient U.M.

1?. Respondent fondled Patient V.ﬁ.'s breasts while he tucked
her shirt up into her bra, and had Patient V.H. lift her bra for
the photographs he took of Patient V.M.

18. Patient V.M.'s incisinns were toward the side of her
abdomen near her hip bone.

19. When Respondent removad the staples from Patient V.M.'s
operation, Patient V.M. complained that it was painful, to which
Respondent replied by rubbing Patient v.ﬁ.*5 pubic area.

20. Respondent, after rubbing ?atient V.M.'s pubic area,
asked Patient V.M., "was it as good for you as it was for me?"

21. During a follow up examination, Respondent stand close t0
?atient V.M. and pusitiunad himself to have Patient V.M.'5 knee rub
against his penis through his clothe5.

22. Respondent, after having Patient V.M. lower her pants and
underwear, felt and squeezed up and down Patient v.M.'s upper
thigh, and when questianed by Patient V.H., responded with a laugh,

” Oh, this isn’t where you had a liposuction done?"

23. During an examination of Patient V.H., Respondent had
Patient V.H., while undressed, sit with her legs apart and
Respondent stood very close tn Patient V.M. between her legs.

a in atie H.M.

24. Patient M.H.. a twentthwo (22) year old female,
presented to Respondent fur liposuction surgery of her abdomen and
follow up examination on multiple occasions during the time period

from on or about March 1, 1993. through about April, 1993.

25. Respondent had Patient H.N. undress during his
examinations.
26. There was no nurse or chapernn present during

Respondent’s examination of Patient M.M.

2?. Respondent, when questioned by Patient M.H. about how
much fat he would remove, replied, "Don't worry. It’ll turn me an

and you'll be happy."

23. Respondent helped Patiant H.M. to undress by pulling down
Patient M.M.'s pantyhose and underwear.

29. During a follow up examination, Respondent stood close to
Patient H.M. and positioned himself to have Patient M.H.'5 leg rub
against his penis through his clothes, and when Patient M.M.
attempted to move away from ReSpondent, he would move closer.

30. Patient M.M.’s scars from the liposuction ware toward the
side of her ahﬂomen near her hip bone.

31. Patient M.H. complained to Respondent of her scars
itching, to which Respundent replied by scratching Patient H.M.'s

pubic area.

 

Cognt Dng

32. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through thirty-one [313 as if fully set forth herein this Count
One.

33. Respondent is guilty of exercising influence within a
patient—physician relationship for purposes of engaging a patient
in sexual activity, in that Respondent fondled Patienta ?.J. and
V.M.'s breasts, rubbed his penis against Patients V.M. and M.H.,
rubbed Patient V.H.'s pubic area, scratched Patient M.H.’5 pubic
area and made sexual innuendos to Patients P 3., V.H. and H.M.

34. Based on the foregoing, Respandent violated Section
453.331(11(j1: Florida Statutes, and is guilty of exercising
influence within a patient~physician relatiDnShip for purpcsaa of
engaging a patient in sexual activity.

gaunt Two

35. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs One [1)
through thirty-one [31) and thirty-three (33) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

36. Respondent is guilty of violating any provision of this
chapter, in that Respondent attempted to engage Patients F.S., V.M.
and H.H. in sexual activity outside the scope of the practice or
ﬁreatmnt of Patients F.s., v.14. and ma. through flirtatious and
seXual atatements and actions. in violation of Section 458.329,

Florida Statutes.

D43'252'1396 09:54 3855275565 H mm HILLIQVE Fﬁ-(E

STAT] 01' MIDI
mum: m SILVER OHB ”HIKITMI'XDH

IBHCY I'D! [311.333 U333

aplIlIImznrxoa,
?Ititiondr,
v. 1321 CASE HO. 93~1asas
' 93-20091
Is-zonas

Dunn GAE! HCI- 95-6G10

m‘ﬂl‘ H. II'UBEIR;
Rowm-nt.

 

GQHE}HK.L§EEEE§HI

Marvin H. shuatar. 11.0., referred to as the "Respondent." and
the Agency for Health Care Administration, referred to at; "Agenoy, "
stipulate and agrna to the following Agreement and to the entry or
a Final Order a: tn: Board. or Nadicins, referred to as “Banal,"
incorporating that stipulated Fact: unﬁt stipulated Disposition in
this matter.

EIIkﬂLBIED.II£IE

1. At: all tins material hereto, Respondent was a licanued
physician in the state of Florida, having bean issued licensa
number HE 0014151.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administratlva Complaint
filed by the Agency and propnrly anrvaﬁ upon Respondent with
violations at Chapter: 455 and 458, ?lorida statutes, and the rulea

mactad pursuant thereto. 3 true and correct copy of the

Adninintrativa Cmapllint 1: attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3?. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1}(x}, Florida Statutes, and is guilty of violating any
provision of this chapter, a rule of the board or department, or a
lawful order of the board or department previously entered in a
disciplinary hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully issued
subpoena of the department.

H'HEREFORE. the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: permanent revocation Dr suspension of the Respondent’s
license, restriction of the Re5pondent’5 practice, impoeition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a raprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, andfor any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate .

SIGNED this {2 day of Mg , 1994.

Doug as M. Cook, Director

      

1; G. McPherson, J .
C iaf Medical Attorn y

COUNSEL FOR AGENCY:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr. Fl LED

chief Medical Attorney mmc’gﬁgmm
Agency for Health Care Administration 059mm

1940 North Honroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792 W m

Florida Bar {738643 _ ..
Rpcxkjh ”*TE—lj—LI'R 11?

PCP: December 15, 1994
Hurray, Slade, and Varn

- 04.“?61'1'355 39:54 3ﬂ552?5555 H L‘CHHHILLIME FAG: a:

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations n!
fact contained in the Administrative Complaint.
W m
1. Relpondcnt ednits that, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, he 1: subject to the provisions 0: Chapters 455 end 458,
Florida statutes. and the jurisdiction of the agency and the Board.
2. Respondent admits that the facts set rorth in the attached
Administrative Complaint, if provan, would constitute violations of
Chapters 455 and 455, Floriﬁa Statutes, as alleged in the

adminiatratiw Complaint.
3. Respondent admits that the Stipulated Disposition in this

case is fair, appropriate and acceptable to Respondent.
W9]:

‘1. W. Respondent shall net in the tuture
violate Chapters ‘55, 453, end 893, Florida Statutaa, m: thn rules
promulgated pursuant. thereto. Prior to signing this agreement, the
chpondemt read Chapters 455, £53, and £93 and the Rules of the
Board at Hedicinn in Section 59R, Florida Administrative Code.

2. m. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in
the amount of $3,000.00 {three thousand) ngeinst the Respondent.
The fine uhell be paid by the Respondent to the Board of Hedicina
ultnin sixty {50} days or its iupositiun by Fine]. Order or the
Board. m HBPDN‘D'ENT ICMMEDGEB mu: T113 TWLY ?ZYHEXT 0? TE!
rm Is an Luau. onummzox MID RESPONSIBILITY um I'm! Rnaromm

IMIBB TD cm: FRICTICING II' THE rm 15 HGT 231!) IE AGREED TO III
III! coxsm “RIM, S?EBIPICALLYI 13 ?KB REHEIZ’II‘IDEM'J.i E13 ND!

EMZEII‘E‘EB [19:54 3655315555 H m HILLIME FAG: 511

nnnxm “Ii‘i‘lﬂ MMTIOH WT 1‘3! ”LL MOM Ol' 1'2! II)?! HIE
Bil! BICHVID BY m noun Ol’I'ICI 1311331]! SD DAYS D? THE IILIEE or
1'31: um ORDIR, TE! RESPOHB‘EH‘I' nunnaa TD 2:13! ?ncﬂc: UNTIL
SUCH IIITTII canrxnxnrrox II IBCEIVID 32 E33 axarounnu! rial ax!
BOARD. (Bil 3131317: B. FMGRHK 1 or ERIE CONSENT Mﬂiﬂm ran
BORED “MISS 111D a-rmm Irma: .

3. HLtnin aixty (50} days or the issuance of a ?innl Order
in this cane, Respondent shall participate in avaluatinn by the
Physicians‘ Recovery Network (hereinafter “PEN“l and comply with
all recommendations af PEN, including a contract with PEN, 1!
indicated.

d. Rclpondnnt shall not axamina or treat any tenale patients
without a tannin clinical health care practitioner licenaad by the
agency for Health Care Administration being present in the room.
The health care licensee shall be present at all tines during the
treatment and axaminatinn. It shall be rannrdad in tha patient
record that tna health care licansea was present at all timas
during the trautnnnt and examination. Said notation shall he
Iignnd by bath the Respondent and the health care licenses. The
Raspanuent shall also maintain a separate log, to be available
during ofﬂine hours for inspactiun on a random and unannounced
basis by tbs Agency's invnstlgatar. Said log shall include the
news: of all female patients that the Respondent examines nndfor

traatn, the data of oxanination audio: trnatnant, Ind the name or
the health cars licensee present in the room during the examination

andfor trnatnent. Each entry in tha log shall be signed and dated

3432631995 69:5: 3855275565 H mm UILLIMS FOG: 63

both by tho Respondent and the health care licensea. On the last
dty of wary calondar month. the Respondent shall submit a sworn
Ind natarized arridavit to the Agency, reflecting whathar he has
oxanlnnd or treatad any renal: patients in. couplianca with thin
urdir.

5. It is expressly understood that this Agraemant 13 subject
to the atprovnl of tbs Board and the hgancy. In this regard, the
furagoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs) shall have
no torch am: nrrnct unless a Final order incorporating the terms or
thin Agrument in entercd by the Board.

6. Respondent shall appear before tho Board at the netting of
UM Board where this Agreement is considered. The Ruapcndent shall.
bu prepared to explain what mensuru haw been taken to pravant a
rnuuurranca.

7. should this agreement be rejected. no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by Respondent: may he used as direct
eviéence against tho Respondent in any proceeﬁing: however, such
ltatmants may ha used by the Petitioner fm- impzachmant purpasas.

8. Respondent: and the Agency fully understand that this jnlnt
agraament and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will in no
my preclude additional proceedings against Respondent tar acts or
minions not speciﬁcally sat rotth 1n the Administrative:
complaint attached an Exhibit '1.“ hnraln.

9. Upon the Board's adoption at this Agreement, Raspnndnnt
expressly waives all further procedural steps, and nxpressly vulva

all rights to sack judicial review or or to othorwiu challengn or

Gdiﬁﬁflggﬁ 63:54 33552355545 H mm HILLIAH‘S FWI UE-

cantaut tho Vllidity o: the Agreement and the Final Order or thn
Baud incorporating laid Agreement.

10. Upon th- Beard's adaption of this Agreanant, the parties
harlhy squad that each party will bear his nun attorney’s fees and
cunts runulting tron prosacution or defense of this matter.
Ranpondnnt waived the right to unek any attorney’s fees or costs
from th- Agmcy in connection with this matter.

11. This agreement is executed by the Respondent fur the
purpose at avoiding rurther nduinistrativn action with respect to
thin causo. In this: regard, Respondent authorizes the Banrd ta
raviow and Ixamina all inventigatiua rile materials concerning
anspondant prior to or in conjunction with consideration or the
Aqreamant. Furthermora, should this joint Agreement not be
Incaptad by the Board, 11-. is agreed that presentation to and
consideration or thin Agreement and other documents and matters by
tin Board shill not unfairly or illegally- prejudice the Board or
any at its nenbers from further participation, consideration, cu.-

resolution or these proceedings.

 

8432531995 (39:54 3255275555

H MN IIJILLINI‘S FREE 87

J
llﬁm this 96 day a: 1'.ng 7, 1995.

 

Ettore me, personally appaarad Harvin H Shuntor, M.D.,
vhann identity is i:

now: to me by (type or
Ldantitiaation) and who, under oat , unknown gas that his
Ilqnntura appear: above. _

Ewart) to and subscribed before ma this 2C: day a! M,
1995.

N BLC

_§»I»N»»m:»»mmmmm»mmm
Hy Commission mime: 5'3. g-‘W mm: H.055“ r

l" ”M&lhsm fnam-
; .3 ﬁg Cumluimmcémm
g ”" “renummmm
u

M Thumb mm. M I r.
\mmmummmumumm

Approved this .226 day at {é €36 , 1996.

   

try 6. HcPharaon, Jr:
iaf. Attorney

EGH2S{EEQE 39:56 38552?555:- H MN HILLIM P

9%

333131! B
IERHDIID TEINS IPPLICABLB 10 CORBSHT agnsznzums

The following are the standard turns applicable to all ccnuant

agrseuantn, including supervision and monitoring provisions

lpplicnbla to licensees on probation.

A. EAXHEELJQLIJﬂﬁﬁ; Unlasa otherwise directed by the
consent aqrnament, all fines shall he paid by check or money order
nnd sent to the Board address set forth in paragraph E, belau. The
Board office does not have the authority to change the terms or
payment a: any fine impusad by the Board.

3- 9QﬂMHﬂIII_ﬁEBE1QE_AﬂQ_QQEIIHHIH§_EEQ£AEIQEAJEEJEL
Unless otherwise directed by the consant agreement, all community
nnrvica riquiremants, continuing education units/cnurses must be
completed, and documantatiun of such completion suhmittud to the
Board at Hadicinn at the address ant turth below in paragraph 3,
lilarﬂ 0H8 YEAR or T33 D11: or TEE rIHLL ORDER.

C. annnzéssa. Respondent must kcep current residence
and practice addresses on file with the Board. Rnnpondunt shall
notify the Board within ten [10} days at any changee or said
addresses. Furthermore. it the Respondent's licenae is on
probation, the naspondcnt shall notify the aoard within ten (10)
day. in tho avant that Respondent leaves the Active practice at “C
in Florida.

D. 99515; Purauunt to Section £58.331(2), Florida
Statutes, the Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply
with thn terms at this Consent agreement. Such costs include, but

3-1

54:125/I996 69:5: 3855275555 H BCH-l UILLIAMS PHI 9'3

are not limited to, the costs or preparation of Investigative
Rapartn dntailing compliance with the terms at the Consent
Agreement, obtaining supervision or monitoring of the practice, the
colt or quality assurance twins, and the Board‘s administrative

costs directly- nlaociated with Respondent’s probation.

E. W Dnlusa otherwise directed by the

Board attics, all rinse. reports, aarrnspnndence and inquiring
shall bu aunt ta: naard o: Hadioim, mm North Honroa street,
ﬁlllhutu, rlaridn 32399-9792, attn: Final Order Complianc-
onion.

P. PROBATION TREES. If probation was imposed by the

Final Order o: the Board, thi tallawing prwieinn: are applicable.
1- W:

a. Wm 15 supervision by a
monitoring 'C [moniton whoa: reapensibilihies are set by the
Board. Indirect aupmision does not require that the monitor
Practice on the same prenises 3:3 the Respondent, however, the
monitor Ihan practice within a reasonable geographic proximity to
Ranpondant, which shall be within 20 nilan unless otherwise
provided by the Board and shall be readily available for
consultation. The monitor shall be Baard-certitiad in the
Rupondont’l specialty area unless otherwise provided by the Board.

1). W is supervision by a
supervising “-c (supervisor) whose responsibilities are Eat by the
Board. Direct supervision requires that the supervisor and
Manondant work in the same ofﬁce. The supervi5inq “C shall ha

3-:

