STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR BEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE Fm“““””“ﬂﬂgﬂiﬂgmmuiii
‘ FEED

ADMENISTRATION' BOARD OF Agency I‘m Heallh Cam Adminislmtion

MEDLCINE, Ammcvmﬁkx

RS, PO 'cr. Agan‘y Clerk
Petitioner, BwﬁgaEE g3 Eé 23 x;

Deputy Agency Clerk

V. CASE NUMBER: 93ﬁl3540
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0030285

HANY FARID HELMY, M.D.,

Respendent.

_________,____________________/
FINAL ORDER

THIS MATTER came before the Board at Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on October 1, 1994 in Coral
Gables, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement (attached
hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the above»
styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent Agreement, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, anﬁ being otherwise advised in the premises, the Board
rejected the Consent Agreement proposed and offered an amendment at
the hearing, which amendment was accepted without objection by the
parties”

IT IS SEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby appreved and adopted in toto and
inccrporated by reference herein with the amendments as followed:

1. Within six (6) months of the filing of this Final Order,
the Respendent shall perform 20 hours of community service.
Community service shall comsist of medical services provided

directly to patients withaut fee or cost t0 the gatient for the

good of the people of ‘Ae State of Florida. Such community service
shall be performed outside the physician's regular practice
setting. Respondent shall submit a written performance plan and
completion of the community service to the Board's Probationer’s
Ccmmittee for approval prier to yerformance of said community
service. Affidavits detailing the completion of community service
requirements shall be filed with the Board.

2. Within ninety (90) days of the filing of the Final Order,
the Respondent shall write an article suitable for publication on
'wrong site surgery -

Accoréingly, the parties shall adhere t0 and abide by all cf
the terms and conditions of the Consent Agreement, as amended.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Agency
DUNE AND ORDERED this?) Q:%ﬂ day (§::C E>d)ﬁf" , 1994.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

//
Sczxc- <Ech£¢¢eéZZ Xi erd

éARY E. WINCHESTER, M. D.
VICE~CHAIRMAN

QERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true anﬂ correct copy of the foregoing
hae been provided by certified U. S. Mail to Hany Farid Helmy, M. D.
270 North Sykes Creek Parkway, Merritt Iela14, Florida 32953- 3427,
William B. Wiley, Esquire, P.D. Box 2174, Tallahassee, Florida
32316—2174, and by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr.,
Chief Medical Attorney, Agency for Health Care Administration,
Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida
32399w0792, at or before 5:00 P.M”, this day of

, 1994.

HARM M. HARRIS, Ed.D.
Executive Birector

#1'5 right index finger when consented only to surgery on her right
middle finger.

12. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent has
violateﬁ Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida statutes, through gross or
repeated malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that
level 0f cars; skill, and treatment which £5 recognized by a
reasonably prudent similar physician as being acaeptahle under
similar conditions and circumstances.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one ar more of the following
penalties: restriction of the Respcndent's practice, imposition of
an administrative fine, issuance 0f & reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/cr any nther ralief that the Beard
deems apprapriate. Petitioner is ﬂat seeking permanent revocation
or suspension of Respondent’s license.

I
SIGNED this C93 day of w , .1994.

Geurge Stuart, Secretary

x/
41

Ch’ef Medical Attorney

   
 

 

COURSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.
Chief Me&ical Attorney
Department of Business and Professional Reguiation

1940 North Monroe Street E a L E D
Tallahassee, Florida 32399~0750

y lo): iéa Bar #7 3 3 5 4 3 Departmeni of Business and Professional Reguiavtion
LGM/ cab AGENCY CLERK

PCP: April 19, 1994
Katims, Diblan, Fenwick

m m f. wmm
J4?{wEi “Q&Qé'- EE

swnrz O? FLORIDﬁ
DEEERTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPERTKENT 0? BUSINESS AED
PROFESSIDNAL REGULATIOH,

Pﬁtitiamar,

ﬁﬂER CASE NO. 93135‘0

HAHY ERRED KELKY, M.E.,

Respondent,
/

 

§Q§§§EE_§§§£EE§§§E
Hany Farid Helmy, M.D., referred to a5 the "Respondent,“ anﬂ
the Department.of Business and Professianal Regulation, referred to
as “Department," stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and
to the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to

as "Board," incorporating the stipulated Facts and stipulated
Dispcsition in this matter.
STIPQLATEQ EACTS

1. At all times material hereto“ Respondent was a licensed
physician in the State of Florida having been issued license number
ME 00362859

2» Responéént was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
violaticns of Chapter 458, Flerida Statutes, ana the rules enacted
pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative

Complaint i$ attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of
fact contained in the Administrativa Complaint.

§IlBﬂLéEEQJQﬂEEAEﬂEﬂEL£ELLéE

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458E
Florida Statutes, and the jurisdictian of the Department and the
Board.

2” Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute violations of
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative
Complaint.

SIIPULATED Q;SPQSIE£ON

1‘ EUTURE CONDUCT. Respchdant shall not in the future
violate Chapters 455, 458 and 893, Flarida Statutes, or the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto. Friar ta signing this agreement, the
Respondent read Chapters 455, 458 and 893 and the Rules of the
Board of Medicine, at Section 61F6, Florida Administrative Code.

2. Egﬂﬂ; The Board shall impcse an administrative fine in
the amount of $2,000 (two thousand ﬁollars) against the Respondent.
The fine shall be paid by the Resyendent to the Bcard of Medicine
within 180 days of its impcsition by Final Order of the Board.

3. LETTER OF CGNCERN; The Respondent “hall receive a Letter
of Concern frcm the Board of Medicine.

49 UALITY ASS ‘CE CONSULTAT ONa An independent, certified
risk manager will review Resgcndent‘s current practice prior to the

Board’s cansideratiou of this Agreement. Specifically, this

indepenﬁent consultant shall review the procedures that the
Respondent has implemented to insure that a patient is being
operated on at the correct site; the training and duties of
Respondent's medical staff; and Respondent’s method of record
keeping. This consultant will prepare a report aﬂdressing
Reeponéentis practice. This report will include suggested
improvements of the quality assurance of Resyondent’s practice.
Respondent will submit this report, as well as documentation that
demonstratee his compliance with the suggestions enumerated in the
report, to the Beard for consideratian in ccnjunction with this
Agreement.

5: CQNTINUING gEQICAL EQUCATIQNL within one (1) year of the

 

filing of the Final Order incaryorating the terms of this
Agreement, Respondent shall attend ten (19) hours of Category I
Continuing Medical Education in risk management. Respondent shall
submit a written plan to the Chairman 0f the Probationer's
Committee for approval prior to the cempletien of said continuing
educaticn hours. The Board confers autherity on the Chairman of
the Probationer’s Committee ta apgreve or disapprcve said
continuing education hours. In addition, Respondent shall submit
documentation in the form of certified copies of the receipts!
vcuchere, certificates, er other papers, such as physician's
recognition awards, documenting completion Of these medical

education ceurses within one (1) year of the entry of the Final

Order in this matter. All such documentagion shai; be sent t9 the
Board of Medicine, reaarﬁlese 0f whether some gr anx o; sueh

documentatigg_yg§ ggeviou§;y Qggviggg gugiﬂg ghg ggggsg 9: a5!
augig or gi§§25§ion with cgunsgl ﬁg;_;nguggpartmggt. These hoarg

shall be in addition to those hours required for renewal of
licensureu Unless otherwise approved by the Board, said continuing
medical education ccurses shall consist of a formal, live lecture
fermatn

6. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject
to the approval of the Board and the Department. In this regard,
the faregoing paragraphs {an& only the {cregming paragraphs) shall
have no force and effect unless a Final Grder incerpcrating the
terms ¢f this Agreement is entered by the Board.

7. Raspondent shall appear before the Emard at the meeting of
the Board where this Agreement i$ ccnsidered. Respondent, in
conjunction with the consideration cf this Agreement by the Beard,
shall respond to questians under oath from the Board, Board Staff
or Department Staff. The Respondent shall be prepared to explain
the circumstances invalved in this matter and what measures have
been taken to prevent a reocurrencew

8. should this Agreement he rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by the Re$pondent may be used as
éirect evidence against the Respandent in any procaeéing; however,
such statements may ha used by the Petitioner for impeachment
purposes.

9‘ Respondent and the Department fully unﬁerstand that this
joint Agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will

in ma way preclude adéitional proceedings by the Board and/or ﬁne

Degartment against the Respondent for acts or omissions not
specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as
Exhibit A herein.

10‘ Upon the Board's aéoption of this Agreement, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of at to otherwise challenge or
cantest the validity of the Agreement and the Pimal Order of the
Boarﬂ incorporating said Agreementa

11. Upon the Board's adoption uf this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will hear his own attorney's fees and
costs resulting from prosecution er defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attcrney’s fees or costs
from the Department in connection with this matter.

12. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent far the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respcndent prior to or in conjunctiva with consideration of the
Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
cansideration of this Agreement and ather dacuments and matters by
the Board shall not unfairly or illegally grejndice the Board or
any of its members frem further participation, consideration or

resolutian of these proceedings.

‘h .
SIGNED this 27' day of _ “—3 ’ . , 1994.

KMQRNMQEEZL ){Mm g, 2
Hany Farid Helm , M. D.

Before me, personally appeared
whose iéentity is known t0 me by '
identification) and who, under ath,
signature appears abuve.

Swor tc and subscribed beforen mri
Ziftg , 1994. ‘

My Cammission Expires:

  
   

acknow edges that his/her

  
 
  
     

- 1 _

APPROVED this 593) day of {W , 1994.
George Stuart/

Secretary -

L rry G?’ cPhersen, Jr.
(hiaf Attorney
Medical Section

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF EUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,
PETITIONER,
vs. CASE NO. 9313540
Hany Farid Helmy, M.D.

RESPONDENT .
/

ADMINISIBAELEE COMFLAIEE

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Business and
Professional Regulation, hereinafter referred ta as ”Petitioner,“
and files this Administrative Camplaint before the Board of
Medicine against Hany Farid Helmy, M.D. hereiﬁafter referred to as
"Respondent," and alleges:

1% Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant ta Sectian 20.165, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2, Respondent is anﬂ has bean at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Flcrida, having been issueﬁ
licensa number HE 0030285. Respondent’s 1a§t known aﬁdress is 2?0
North Sykes Creek Parkway, Merritt Island, Florida 32953—3427.

3. Resyondent 13 board certified in arthopaedic surgery,

4“ On or abaut June 28, 1993, Patient #1, a 79 year alﬁ
female, was admitted to ﬁuesthoff Hospital by Respondent. Patiant

#1 had a 10mg histery Bf arthritis with pain in the right wrist and

hand for the last few months. Examination by Respondent revealed
that Patient #1 had significant arthritis involving the distal
intarphalangeal joint of her right middle and index fingers, and
severe osteoarthritis of the trapeziometacarpal joint of her right
thumb.

5. ?atient #1 was aﬁmitted for the purpase of undergoing an
arthroplasty of the right wrist and arthrodesis on the distal
interphalangeal joint of the right midﬁle fingar only.

6. Respondent explained the pracedures mated in paragraph
five (5) above and the accompanying risk$ to Patient #1, and she
consented to allow Responéent ta perferm only those grocedures.

7. Patient #1 was taken to surgery and Respcndent performed
de la Caffiniere arthreplasty of the right wrist and arthrodesis of
the distal interphalangeal joint of thﬁ right index finger.

8. When Patient #1 awoke in the racovery roam, she realized
that Respondent had operated 0n the wrong finger. She became upset
and told Respondent that she had wanted the middle finger operated
on b&cause it was the MOSt painful.

9. Respondent tack Patient #1 back into surgery and
performeﬁ arthrodesis of the distal interghalangeal joint of the
right midﬂle finger under legal anesﬁhesia.

10w Respandent admitted in a letter dansd October 6, 1993,
that he had mistakeniy perfcrmed the procedure om tha wrong finger
during the initial operatian.

11¢ Respon§ent practiceﬁ medicine helew the acceptable

stanéard Of care in that Ragyondent yerformed surgery on Patient

