 

@W
STATE OF FLORIDA

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONALREGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE Final Order No. 3911-9403579 Date 919—11

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND ED

PROFESS IONAL REGULATION, Dep" °f Bmiecsggngg’gfgsﬁ?“ Regma‘w“

Petitioner I By. Earn]: Wachman, {Agney lerk

v. DBPR CASE NUMBER: 93-13494
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0007249

JOHN M. WILSON, JR., M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on June 3, 1994, in Palm
Beach, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement (attached
hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the above-
styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent Agreement, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall

adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the

Consent Agreement.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Department.

DONE AND ORDERED this ”L day W , 1994.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

(OW WW

EDWARD A. DAUER, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFK'that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to John M. Wilson, Jr.,
M.D., 164 East Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06851-5715 and 8 Cross
Road, Darien, Connecticut 06820, and by interoffice delivery to
Larry G. McPherson, Jr., chief Medical Attorney, Department of
Business and Professional Regulation, Northwood Centre, 1940 North
Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792, at or before 5:00

P.M., this day of , 1994.

MARM M. HARRIS, Ed.D.
Executive Director

order, or other settlement, offered in response to or in
anticipation of the filing of administrative charges against the
physician's license, shall be construed as action against the

physician's license.

COUN

11. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through seven (7) and nine (9) as if fully set forth herein this
Count Two.

12. Respondent failed to report to the Board, in writing,
within 30 days that action had been taken against his license to
practice medicine in another state, territory, or country, in that
Respondent failed to report to the Florida Board of Medicine that
his Connecticut license had been reprimanded on or about March 16,
1993 .

13. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent has
violated Section 458.331(1)(kk), Florida Statutes, by failing to
report to the board, in writing, within 30 days if action as
defined in paragraph 9 above (Section 458.331(1)(b), Florida‘
Statutes) has been taken against one's license to practice medicine

in another state, territory, or country.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: permanent revocation or suspension of Respondent's

license, restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an

administrative tine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other lrelie'f that the Board

deems appropriate .

SIGNED this 5 day of

  

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Chief Medical Attorney

Department of Business and Professional Regulation
19-10 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750

Florida Bar #788643

LGM/hrb
PCP: October 27, 1993
Katims, Diblan, Fenwick F \ L E D
ment of Buslnea Ind Prdessiom! Regulauon
”‘9‘ 02mm
( 2 ~ g : @rqan
DATE /' ’

STATE OF FLORIDA
DBPARTHENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT 0! BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,

Potitioncr,

V.
BPR CASE NO. 93-13494

JOHN D. IILSON, 33., M.D.

Respondent.

 

QQHEEEI.A§B£E!§EE

JOHN D. WILSON JR., H.D., referred to as the "Respondent,” and
the Department of Business and Professional Regulation, referred to
as "Department," stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and
to the entry of a Final order of the Board of Medicine, referred to
as "Board," incorporating the stipulated Facts and stipulated
Disposition in this matter.

EIIE!LAIED.EA§I§

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed
physician in the state of Florida having been issued license number
ME 0007249.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules enacted
pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative
Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of

fact contained in the Administrative Complaint.

EIIEHLA$EQ_§QEQL!§IQH§_QE—LAE
1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed

physician, he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458,
Florida statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department and the
Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute violations of
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative
Complaint.

§IIEQLAIELJE§EQ§IILQE

1. £HIQ3E_§QEDQQIL Respondent shall not in the future
violate Chapters 455, 458 and 893, Florida statutes, or the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto. Prior to signing this agreement, the
Respondent read Chapters 455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, and
the Rules of the Board of Medicine in Section 61F6, Florida
Administrative Code.

2. Elﬁn; The Board shall impose an administrative fine in
the amount of $1000.00 against the Respondent. The fine shell be
paid by the Respondent to the Board of Medicine within thirty (30)
days of its imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. Appeggance. The Respondent shall appear before the Board
and explain the circumstances of the case and what changes in
Respondent's tranining, experience and practice have occurred to
make a similar reoccurrence unlikely.

4. Within one (1) year of the filing of the Final Order

incorporating the terms of this Agreement, Respondent shall attend

twenty (20) hours of Category I Continuing Medical Education, ten
(10) of which will be in Risk Management and ten (10) of which will
be in Image Interpretation. Respondent shall submit a written plan
to the chairman of the Probationer's Committee for approval prior
to the completion of said continuing education hours. The Board
confers authority on the Chairman of the Probationer's Committee to
approve or disapprove said continuing education hours. In
addition, Respondent shall submit documentation in the form of
certified copies of the receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other
papers, such as physician’s recognition awards, documenting
completion of these medical education courses within one (1) year
of the entry of the Final Order in this matter. suc

gggumentggign shall be sent :9 the ﬁogrg Q: Medicinel [egagdlgss o:

m n c t' s ev u ' e

QWAJWW
nggg:§mgn_. These hours shall be in addition to those hours

required for renewal of licensure. Unless otherwise approved by
the Board, said continuing medical education courses shall consist
of a formal, live lecture format.

5. It is eepressly understood that this Agreement is subject
to the approval of the Board and the Department. In this regard,
the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs) shall
have no force and effect unless a Final Order incorporating the
terms of this Agreement is entered by the Board.

6. Respondent is required to appear before the Board at the

meeting of the Board where where this Agreement is considered. In

conjuﬁction with the consideration of this Agreement by the Board,
Respondent if he chooses to appear shall respond to questions under
oath from the Board, Board Staff or Department staff.

7. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by the Respondent may be used as
direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding; however,
such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment_
purposes.

8. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this
joint Agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will
in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board and/or the
Department against the Respondent for acts or omissions not
specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as
Exhibit A herein.

9. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Agreement.

10. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will bear his own attorney's fees and
costs resulting from prosecution or defehse of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's fees or costs
from the Department in connection with this matter.

11. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning

4

Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the
Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by
the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or
any of its'members from further participation, consideration, or

resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED this (5 day of M, 1994.

@1314 m. 4/ aﬁw 52/ ,L.0~
(”WM JOHN- . WILSON, JR., 11.0.

STATE OF ELGRIDA
COUNTY OF: :AW’f" *5

Before me, personally appea ed ij/th ”I Mr /§m /r ,

whose identity is known to me by "nova: act,» ‘4‘ » t e of
identification) and who, under oath, acknowledges tha hislher
signature appears above.

  
  

sworn to and subscribed before me this
(L -L , 1994.

. . . , ‘ MICHAEL W. GRAVITZ
My Commission Expires. "m Mlle
Fahﬁold Gummcm
MY ' Exam:

’03?

APPROVED this 93 2 day Of € 141% L , 1994.

George Stuart
Secretary

 
  
 
 

cPherson,
Chi f Attorney
Me ical Section

   

BMW/MLH

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,
PETITIONER,

vs. CASE NO. 93—13494
JOHN H. WILSON, JR., M.D.,

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMINISTRATIVE CQMBLAINT

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Business and
Professional Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner,"
and files this Administrative Complaint~ before the Board of
Medicihe against John M. Wilson, Jr., M.D. hereinafter referred to
as "Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.165, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0007249. Respondent’s last known address is 164
East Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06851-5715.

3. Respondent was Board certified in general surgery in
1956.

4. The Connecticut Division of Medical Quality Assurance is

the licensing authority for the State of Connecticut.

5. On or about March 16, 1993 the Connecticut Division of
Medical Quality Assurance issued a Consent Order in Petition number
900501 01-048, and reprimanded Respondent for failing to conform to
the accepted standards of the medical profession.

6. Section 458.331(1)(kk), Florida Statutes, requires a
licensee to inform the Department within thirty (30) days if
another licensing authority takes action against their license to
practice medicine in that jurisdiction.

7. Respondent failed to inform the Petitioner of this action

taken against his license prior to August 3, 1993.

COUNT ONE

8. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through seven (7) as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

9. Respondent is guilty of having his license or his
authority to practice medicine acted against by the licensing
authority of another jurisdiction, in that Respondent was
reprimanded by the Connecticut Division of Medical Quality
Assurance on or about March 16, 1993, pursuant to a consent order.

10. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent has
violated Section 458.331(1)(b), Florida Statutes, by having a
license or the authority to practice medicine revoked, suspended,
or otherwise acted against, including the denial of licensure, by
the licensing authority of any jurisdiction, including its agencies
or swbdivisions. The licensing authority's acceptance of a

physician's relinquishment of a license, stipulation, consent

