STATE OF FDDRIDA
AGENCY FOR HERLTH CARE ADMINISTRATEON
BOARB 9F MEDICZNE

,‘5
RGENC? FOR HEALTH CARE ?mw’mwmmr
Agmmziswmmw, BOARD OF .. .
MEDICWE , W3 ’ﬂ‘gﬁﬁﬁﬁm“ 3‘"
RS.M, C3011:
Patitioner, WW»:
DwmwAwerk

v: CASE NUMBER: 93—14388

LICENSE NUMBER: ME 005103?
DOUGLAS K. DEW, M.D.,

Respondent.

?_INRL muggﬁ

?ﬂis MATTER same bafar§ tha Baard of Medicina (Board) pursuant
t0 Saation 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on August 5, 1994 in
eranﬁa, Florida, fer con5ideration of a Cansent Agreement
{attaahad hereto as Exhibit A} entered into between the parties in
the a§cve-5tyled case. Upon consideration of the Consent
ﬁgreement, the documents submitted in support thgreof, the
arguménts cf the parties: and being otherwise advised in the
premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED ARE ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as sabmitted bE and is hereby apprcved and adopted in toto and
incoryorated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere ta and abide by ail of the terms and canditions of the

Consent Agreement.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Agency.

DONE ANﬁ ORDERED this £2 day _ £22 ?E:EE , 1994.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

(QM @QWM/b.

TEBWARD A. BAUER, pm).
CHAIRMAN

GERHIEICA OF SERVICE

 

I HEREB¥ CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certifieé U.S. Mail to Dauglas K‘ Dew, M.D.,
P.9u Bax 8039, 6500 Highway 20, Paiatka, Flcrida 321?8-8539,
Deburah A. Knauer, Esquire, Barnett Center, Suite 3500, 50 North
Laura street, Jacksonville, Flarida 32202, and by interoffice
delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney, Agency
for Health Care Administration, Northwood Centre, 1940 North.Monroe
Street, Tallahassee, F10ri$a 32399—0792, at or before 5:00 P.M.,

this day of , 1994.

 

 

mm M. HARRIS; ECLD.
Executive Director,

SIGNED this 7Q day «:1?

 

C :ef Médical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherscn. Jr.

Chief Madical Attorney

Department of Business and Prafessiomal Regulaﬁicm
1943 Earth Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399~G7$0

Florida Bar #788643

LGK/kjh

PCP: March 2, 19%4

Katims, Diblan, Fenwick

HHU W.

Proiess‘scnai Rea“

ﬁl,f5L4
3.1m

ENE

Eﬁﬁfﬁ OF P303103
DEPARTMEET OF BUEIEE$S EMU FROFEBSIﬂﬂﬁb EEGULATIOX

BEE§RTHENT OP 30813233 §§ﬂ
PROFESEIQKAL REGULATIQﬁg

Fetitionar,

DBPR C133 KO. 9 3 - 1 4 3 B a

DQGGLAE K. DEW, M.D.,

Rospaudantu
.1

cm game mam

Douglas K. Dew, M.D., referred to as the "Respondent,“ and the

 

Department of Business and Professional Regulation, referred to as
"Department," stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and to
the entry of a Final Oréar 0f the Board of Meéicine, referred to as
"Board,“ incorporating the Stipulatea Facts and stipulated
Disposition in this matter.

STIPULAEED EACTS

1. At all times material hereto, Respsndent was a licensed

 

physician in the state of Florida having been issued license number
ME 0651037.

2“ Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Deparﬁment and yroperly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Ficrida Statutesy ané the rules enacteé
pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of tha Administrative

Complaint is attacheé haretc as Exhibit A.

3° Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of

fact cantained in the Administrative Complaint“
gmmgowmgmﬁ g5 3&3?

1a Raspondent admita that, in his capacity as a licenseé
physician, he is subjéct to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458,
Florida statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department and the
Beard.

2. Respondent admitﬁ that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Camplaint, if provenp would constitute violations cf
Chapter 458, Florida Statuteﬁ, as alleged in the Administrative
Complaint.

§IIPU§$TEB DISPOﬁITIOM

1. FUIURE CONQUCTw Respondent shall not in the future
vialate Chapters 455, 458 and 3935 Florida Statutes, or the rules
promulgated pursuant tharetoa Prior to signing this agreement, the
Respondent read Chapters 455, 453 and 893 and the Rules of the
Board of Medicine, at Section 61F6, Florida Administrative Coﬁe.

2. ggﬂg; The Bear& shall impase an administrative fine in
the amannt of $1,250 (ene thousand twm hundred and fifty dollars)
against the Respondent. The fine shall be paid by the Respandent
tn the Eeard of Medicine within sixty (60) days of its imposition
by Final Order of the Boaré.

3Q COETINUING EEQICAL EDUCgZIGN. The Respondent shall submit
procf 20 the Eaard, at the tim& that this Consent Agreement is
considgred, that he has cempletad the follewing sinsa June 24,

1993:

a. Forty (49) hours of Category 1 Continuing Medical
Education in the area of orthopedic surgery.

b. Five {5) hears of Category E Continuing Medical
Education in the ares cf risk management.

Respondent shall submit documentation in the form of certified
ccpies cf the receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other papers,
such as physician's recaqnition awards, documenting completion of
these medical education courses. These hours shall be in addition
t0 those hours required fer renewal of licensure. Unless otherwise
appruved by the Board, said éontinuing medical educatien courses
shall consist of a formal, live lecture format“

4. It is expressly anaerstood that this Agreement is subject
to the approval of the Board and the gepartment. In this regard,
the feregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs) shell
haVe no force and effect unless a Final Order incorporating the
terms of this Agreement is entered by the Board.

5. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting of
the Beard where this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in
conjunction with the consiﬁeratien Of this Agreement by the Board,
shall zespond to questiens under oath from the Board, Board Staff
er Department Staff. The Respondent shall be prepared to explain
the circumstances involved in this m tter and what measures have
been taken to prevent a reoccurrenee.

64 Should this Agreement be rejected, ﬁe statement made in
furﬁherance Of this Agreement by the Resysmsent may be used as

direct evidence against the Respendent in any preceeding; however,

such statements may be used by the Petiticnaz for impeachment
purpmaes.

7. Respondent aﬁd the Department fully understand that this
joint Agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will
iﬁ ne way preclude additional groceedinqs by the Board and/or the
Department against the Respondent for acts or omissions not
specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached ag
Exhibit A hereing

8. Upon the Board’s ad¢ptian of this Agreement, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review af 0r to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity cf the Agreement and the Final order of the
Board incorporating said Agreement.

9. Upon the Boaré's adoptian ef this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will hear his own attorney’s fees and
costs resulting from prasecution _or defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attcrney's fees or costs
frcm the Department in cannection with this matter.

16. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respbndent authorizes the Board ta
review and axamine all investigativu file materials concerning
Resyamdent print ta a? in conjunction with consideratinn cf the
Agreement“ Furthermerei should 'this joint Agreement net be
accepted by the acarﬁ; it is agreed that gresantation to aﬁﬁ

ccnﬁiéeraticn of this Rgreament and other documents and matters by

thw waard shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board at
any 9E its members Exam furthar participation, consideration or

resolutian cf these ptaceadinqs.

.1 ’7’,”

SIGNED this “ ’5 day of AM; ‘/ 1994.

I

Douglas K w, M.D.

Befora me, persenally appeareﬁ// ,
whosa identity is known ta me by (type of
identification) and who, unﬁer math, acknewledges that his/her
gignature aypears above.

 

Sworn to and subscribed befare me this 2~5h(4 day 0f
F(ngz , 19a4¢
, . y. €
arfsiCM/P .’$¢€€:.L“1_L M-

  
   

 

NOTARY PUaLI

1" LORIDR )1? M35;
UL? 21, 19%

NDMRY ?UEUC STATE OF
MY Ccmiﬁisicﬂ Expireﬁ MY CQééMlSSiQH EKHMS J

APPROVED this % day 3:? , 1994.

George Stua ~
Secretary

Chief Attarney
Medical Sectien

 
 
   

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIGNAL REGULATION
3OARD OF MEDICINE

DEQARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,

PETITIONER,
vs. CASE NO. 93-14388
BQUGLAS K. DEW, 24.9.,

RESFONDEETE
/

AQEINISTEAIgvg §OMPLALH§
COMES NOW the ?etitioner, Department of Business and

 

Profegsicnal Regulaticn; hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner,“
anﬁ files this Administrative Camylaint before the Board of
Medicine against Douglas Kn Dew, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respandent,” and alleges:

la Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the
practice of medicine pnrsuant to Section 20.165, Florida Statutes;
Chapter 455, Florida Skatutas; and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto a
licansed physician in the State of Flariday having been issued
licensg number ME 0051037. Regpondent’s last Kncwn address is 6508
Highway 20, Palatka, Flarida,

3* Respondent is an crthcpaedic surgecn.

3“ Patient #1 was an approximately fifty—three (53) year old
female.

é. Patient #1 was scheduleﬂ to underga surgery in her left

ankla for arthroscepy with irrigation and debxiﬁement of marked

aynoviﬁia wiﬁh chondrepgasty and removal of two (2) madial
mallenlar screws.

7. On or about June 24; 1993, Patient #1 grasented to Putnam
Cammunity Hospital for surgery.

8. Patient #1 was pzeyared for surgery by the hospital staff.

9. Patient #1’5 right (incorrect) ankle was prepared far
surgery.

10. Respondent perfarmeé arthroscopy on Patient #1'5 right
(incmrrect) ankle.

ll. Respondent found and removed a synovial fold.

12a Respondent made an inciaion into Patient #1'5 right
(incorrect) ankle to iasata the garews.

13. Respcndent did not see the screws to be removeﬁ.

14, Image intensific&tion was brought into place to verify
the hardware position.

15. No hardware was Eound in Patient #1'5 right (incorrect)
ankle.

16. Respondent, after referring to the operating permiti
determined that he haé @perated on the wrong ankle.

17. Respcﬁdent clased the incisien in the right (incorrect)
ankie._

18° The operating xcom was rearrajged far Sﬂrgery on the left

9. Respandent perfarmed the surgery am Patient #l’s left

25» Patient #1 wag taken to the recovery room in satisfactory
ccndition.

21. Respondent Was ultimataly responﬁible for correctnegm cf
operating site.

23. Resgandent practiced medicine below the standard of care;
in that Respondent operatﬂd on the wrong ankle of Patient #1»

24. Based on the fcreguing, Respondent violated Sectian
458a331(1)(t), Florida statuteg, ané is guilty 9f gross or repaateﬁ
malpractice 0r the failure to practice meéicine with that level cf
care, skill, and treatment Which is reccgnized by a reasonably
pruﬁent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conﬁiticns and circumstances.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Bcard of
Medicine‘enter an Oraer imp0$ing ans or mere of the following
panalties: restriction sf the Respondent’s practice, imposition of
an administrative fine, issuance aﬁ a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probatien, andfor any other relief that the Bearsi
deems agpropriate. Petitioner will net be seeking revccation er

suspension in this case.

