STATE OF FLORIDA
BOARD OF MEDICINE

Fina! Order Nu. Douglass: DaLc L'Zaiﬁ ,7
FILED

Dcpamm of Hcallh

'34 Y CLERK
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, 7 *m“ C

By: - ’ x , c, 1.! "
Petitioner, DepulyAgemyCle '

vs. C'JXSE NO.: 93-20295
LICENSE N0.: MEDO47971

JAMES C. DOZIER. M.D.,

Respondent.

/

 

EEHBL_QBDEE

THIS CAUSE came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant to
Sections 120.569 and 120.57(4}. Florida Statutes, on October 17, 1997.
in Tampa, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement (attached
hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the above-
styled cause. Upon consideration of the Consent Agreement, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the parties,
and being otherwise advised in the premises, the Board rejected the
Consent Agreement proposed and offered an amendment. which amendment
was accePted without objection by the parties.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein with the following additions:

1. The administrative fine shall be increased to $2000. Said

fine shall be paid within 90 days from the date this Final Oréer is
filed.

2. Respondent shall be required to complete 40 hours of
continuing medical education {CHE} in the area cf emergency medicine.
Said 40 hours of ENE shall include the Florida Medical Association’s
course on medical record keeping. The 40 hours of CME are in aﬁdition
to the CME hcuzs required for licensure renewal. The required £0
hours of CME Shall be completed within 18 months from the date this
Final Order is filed.

3. Within six (6) months from the date this Final Order is
filed, Respondent shall have a certified risk manager inspect and
review his emergency medical practice. Such review shall result in a
written report. a copy of which shall be filed with the Board, and
Respondent shall comply with such recommendations of the risk
management review.

Accordingly, the parties shall adhere to and abide by all the
terms and conditions of the Consent Agreement as amended.

This Final Order shall take effect upon being filed with the

Clerk of the Agency for Health Care Administration.

otherwise provided by the Board and shall be readily available for conwltalion. The monitor shaﬂ be
Board-ceniﬁed in the Respundent's specialty area unless otherwise provided by the Board.

b. DIRECT SLH‘ERVISIQN is supervision by a mpervising physician
(wpervisor) whoae rﬁponsﬂjiljties are set by the Board. Direct supervieion requires that the supervisor

and Respondent work in the same ofﬁce. The wpen'ising physician shall be board—cezﬁﬁed in the

Respondent's specialty area unless oﬂterwise provided by the Board.

c. PROBATIQN COMMITTEE or ”mmmiliee' are members of the

Board of'Meditine designated by the Chairman of the Board to serve as the Probation Committee,

2. REQUEED §UPERVISTON.

a. IFLhe terms of the consent agIeement include indirect monitoring of
the licensee‘s practice (MONITORING) or direct monitoring of Lhe licensees practice
{SUPERVISION}, the Respomﬂent shall not practice medicine without an approved

mortitorr’supenrisor, as speciﬁed by the Consent Agreement, unless otherwise ordered by the Board

b. The monitorfsupervisor must be a licensee under Chapter 458,
Florida Statutes, in good standing and without restriction or Limitation on his license In addition, the
Board or Committee may reject any proposed monitorfsupervisor on the basis that he has previously
been subject to any disciplinary action against his medical license in this or any other jurisdiction, is
currently under investigation, or is the subject ofa pendhg disciplinary action. The monitorfsupervisor
must be actively engaged in the same or similar specialty area unless otherwise provided by the Board
or Committee and be practicing within a reasonable distance ofthe Respondent's practice, a distance cf

no more than twenty (20) miles unless otherwise spedﬁcally provided for in the consent agreement,

3-3

The Board or Committee may also reject any praposed monimri'supervisor for good muse shown.

c. NEWSM FOR APPROVAL QF MONITORISUPERVE‘LQR:

[1). TENIPORARY APPROVAL, The Board mnfers authority on the Chairman of‘
the Board's Probation Committee to temporarily approve Resyondent's monitort‘mpmaisor. To obtain
this temporaryr approve], Respondent shall submit to the Chah-rnan of the Proban'cm Committee the
name and curriculum vitae of the. proposed munitorimpmrisor an the time this agreement is considered
by the Board. Once a Final Order adopting this Agreement is ﬁled, Respondent shall not
practice medicine without an appmved monitorfsupewisor. Temporary approval shall only
remain in effect until the next meeting ufthe Probation Committee.

(2). FORMAL APPROVAL. Respondent shall have the monitor/supewisor with
him at his ﬁrst probation appearance before the Probation Committee. Prior to consideraﬁon of the
monitorlsupenisnr by the Committee, the Respondent shall pruvide to the momlorfsupenisor a copy
of the Administrative Complaint and Final Order in this case. Respondent shall submit a current
curriculum vitae and a description of current practice from the proposed morﬁtorﬁsupenisor to the
Beard nﬂice no hater than fourteen days before the Respondent's ﬁrst scheduled probation appeamnee.
Respondent's morLitorfsupewisor shall also appear before the Pmbaﬁnn Committee 31 such other times
as directed by the Committee. It shall be Resmndmt's mponsfbility to ensure thal the appearance of
his morﬁton’supewisor as dimmed. Failure of the monitorr'supewiwr to appear as dimmed shall

constitute a violation of the terms of this Stipulation and shall subject the Respondent to disciplinary

action.

d. CHANGE IN MONITORJSUPERVISOK tn the event that Respondent's
monitorlsupewisor is unable or unwilling to fulﬁll his responsibilities as a monhorlwpervisor as
described above, then the Respondent shall immediately advise the Board of this fact. Respondent shall
immediately submit to the Chairman of the Board's Probation Comnﬁttee the name of a temporary
monitoriwpewisor for consideration Respondent shall not practice pending approval of this
tempomry monitorimpervisor by the Chairman of the Probation Committee. Furthennore,
Respondent shall make arrangements with his temporary monitorlsupervisor to appmr before the
Probatinn Committee at its next regulaﬂy scheduled meeting for consideration of the
mmﬁtorlsupewiscr by the Committee. Respondent shaﬂ only practice under the auspices of the
temporary monitorlsupewisor (approved by the Chahman} until the next reguiady scheduled meeting
of the Probation Committee whereat the issue of the Committee's approval of the Respondent's new

moniton’wpervisor shall be addressed.

 

 

 

3. RESPQJNSEB ItY QF EQLJIEEMENTS OF PROBATION. II is the

 

responsibility of the Respondent to ensure all requirements in this agreement are fulﬁlled1 including
compliance with all terms of probation, submission of reports from the monitor. investigator, or
Respondent, appearance at Probation Committee meetings, Failure of the Respondent to eempiy with

any of the terms of this agreement may result in the ﬁling of a new Administrative Complaint against

the Respondent.

4. QQNTENUTW OF PRACTICE
3. TOLLING PROVEIONE. 1n the event the Respondent leaves the State of

Floﬁda for a period of ﬂirty days or more or odterwise does not engage in the aetive practice of

medicine in the State of Florida. than certain provisions of Respondenl's probation (and only those
provisions of the probation) shall be tolled as enumerated below and shall remain in a tolled status until
Respondent returns to active practice in the State ofﬂorida:

(I). The time period ofprobation shall be tolled.

(2]. The provisIOns regarding supervision whether direct or mdirect by annther
physician, and required reports from the monitorfsupcrvisor shall be tolled.

(3} The provisions regarding preparaﬁun of investigative reports detailing
compliance with this Stipulation shall be tolled.

{4). Any provisions regarding community service shall be tolled,

b. ACTIVE PRACTICE. In the event that Respondem leaves the active practice

of medicine for a period Of one year or more, the Probation Comﬁttce may require Respondent to
appear before the Probation Committee and demonstrate his ability to practice medicine wilh skill and

safety to patients prior to resuming the practice of medicine in this State.

STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE
ADMINISTRATION,

PETITIONER,

VS. _ CASE NO. 93-20295

JAMES CRANSTON DGZIER, H.D.,

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMINISTRATIVE CDMPLAINI

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Agency for Health Care

 

Administration, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
James Cranston Dozier, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent,“ and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with ragulating the
practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.42, Florida statutes;
Chapter 455, Florida statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto a
licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number HE 0047971- Respondent’s last known address is
Indian River Memorial Hospital, Department of Emergency Hedicine,
1000 36th Street, Vera Beach, Florida, 32960.

3. Respondent is Board Certified in Emergency Medicine.

4. ?atient G.F., a sixty—one [61] year-old male, was under

the care of his personal physician, an internist, from in or about

March 1991, to in or about December 1991, for evaluation and
treatment of his severe anxiety.

5. On or about December 11, 1991, Patient 6.1-“.‘9 wife
telephonically contacted the internist's office and reported that
Patient G.F. was becoming lethargic and he was refusing to eat.

6. The internist's staff advised Patient G.F.'s wife to take
Patient G.F. to Indian River Medical Center (IRMC) Emergency Room
(ER) for admission to IRHC'B psychiatric facility under the care of
a psychiatrist.

?. On or about December 11. 1991, at approximately 3:10
p.m., Patient G.F. presented to the ER at IRMH with complaints of
anxiety and a desire for medical evaluation for admission into the
psychiatric facility.

3. At the time of his presentation, Patient G.F. had the
following vital signs: blood pressure 166/83; temperature 98.3
degrees fahrenheit; pulse 109 beats per minute; and respirations 20
per minute.

9. Respondent was the ER physician on duty at the time of
Patient G.F.’s presentation and he examined Patient G.F. in
response to his complaints and ordered the performance of a
complete blood count with blood chemistries, a urinalysis, and a
chest x-ray.

10. Respondent obtained and documented Patient G.F.'s medical
history which stated the following: "61 year—old male who has a
history of panic disorder who states he is feeling o.k. without

haV1ng a lot of anxiety. Very complex history."

11. Respondent failed to obtain and document Patient G.F.‘s
complete medical and family history, including past medical
history, personal history and Patient G.F.’s current medication
regimen.

12. Respondent examined Patient G.F. and listed the abnormal
findings as being cyanosis of the toes (a dark bluish or purplish
coloration of the skin and muCOus membranes due to deficient
oxygenation of the blood) and swelling of the feet.

13. Respondent failed to perform and document a thorough
examination of Patient G.F. to include a complete review of systems
in order to completely assess Patient G.F.'s complaints and
condition.

14. Patient G.F.'s tests returned showing elevated white
blood cell and red blood cell counts, elevated hematocrit and
hemoglobin levels, elevated liver function tests and abnormal blood
chemistry levels.

15. Respondent failed to correctly interpret and address the
abnormal blood tests and examination findings of Patient G.F.

15. Respondent read Patient G.F.'s chest-x—ray and
interpreted it as showing a right pleural effusion (presence of
fluid in the chest between the outer and inner linings of the
lung).

1?. In reading Patient G.P.'s chest x-ray, Respondent failed
to note that Patient G.F. was suffering from heart failure in

addition to the pleural effusion.

15. Respondent failed to obtain a cardiology consultation and
order the performance of an electrocardiogram (a recording of the
electrical activity of the heart} for Patient G.P. in response to
Patient G.F.'s complaints, Respondent‘s examination findings and
Patient G.F.'a chest x-ray results.

19. Respondent failed to address in his written documentation
of his examination and treatment of Patient G.F., his review of the
abnormal laboratory and x—ray findings, as Well as his
interventions in response to said findings.

20. Respondent diagnosed Patient G.F. as suffering from
anxiety and a pleural effusion and he diacharged Patient G.F. home
without offering treatment and with instructions to rest and to
continue medications as before.

21. Respondent’s ER record for Patient G.F. does not list the
medications Patient G.F. was taking which Respondent instructed him
to continue.

22. Patient G.F. was discharged from the ER at approximately
6:05 p.m.

23. Respondent failed to hospitalize Patient G.F. for further
evaluation and tests.

24. A reasonably prudent similar physician would hava
recognized the seriousnBSs of Patient G.F.'s complaints and would
hava admitted Patient G.F. to the hospital for further evaluation
and testing in response to said complaints and examination findings
and after review of the abnormal test results and chest x—ray

findings.

25. On or about December 12. 1991. at approximately 12:00
a.m., Patient G.F. again presented to the ER cf IRHC via rescue
with complaints of shortness of breath and weakness.

26. At the time of his presentation, Patient G.F. had the
following vital signs: blood pressure ?D/palpable; temperature 95.3
degrees fahrenheit; pulse 114 beats per minute; and respirations 36
per minute. In addition, Patient G.F. was noted to have mottled
skin and decreased capillary refill (denotes a decreased state of
tissue perfusion).

27. At approximately 12:32 a.m., Patient G.F. was nasally
intubated due to his progressing resPiratory distress and he was
placed on a ventilator. In addition. Patient G.F. deteriorated
neurologically and subsequently became comatose.

28. Patient G.F. was placed on medications to increase his
blood pressure and he was admitted to the intensive care unit.

29. Patient G.P. was seen by a cardiologist and a
pulmonologist who diagnosed Patient G.F. as suffering from severe
and stage cardiogenic shock (shock resulting from failure to
maintain blood supply to the circulatory 5ystem and tissues due to
inadequate cardiac output) probably as a result of biventricular
failure [failure of bath ventricles of the heart to pump
adequately}.

30. At approximately 9:05 a.m., Patient G.F. expired with the
causes of death being cardiac arrest, respiratory arrest and

myocarditia (inflammation of the cardiac muscle}.

oun e

31. Petitioner reallagea and incorporates paragraphs one [1)
through thirty (30) if fully set forth herein this Count One.

32. Respondent is guilty of practicing gross or repeated

malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that level of

care, skill and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably

prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar

conditions and circumstances, in that Respondent failed to obtain
and document the complete medical and family history, including
past medical history, personal history and current medication
regimen of Patient G.F., Respondent failed to perform a thorough
examinaticn of Patient G.F. to include a complete review of systems
in order to completely assess Patient G.F.'s complaints and
condition, Respondent failed to correctly interpret and address the
abnormal blood tests and examination findings of Patient G.F.,
Respondent failed to correctly interpret Patient G.F.'s chesthx-
ray as revealing the presence of heart failure, Respondent failed
to obtain a cardiology consultation and order the performance of an
electrocardiogram for Patient G.F., Re5pondent failed to correctly
diagnose Patient G.F. as suffering from heart failure; Respondent
discharged Patient G.F. home without offering treatment and without
further investigating his condition, and R35pondent failed to
hospitalize Patient G.F. for further evaluation and the performance
of tests based on Patient G.F.'s complaints, Respondent's
examinatian findings and Patient G.F.’s abnormal laboratory test

results.

DONE AND ORDERED this 2“ I ‘ day of Nﬂ'bW/‘MJ, 1997.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

6M0

EDWARD A. DAUER. M.D.
CHAIRPERSON

CEEIIEISaIE_QE_ﬁEEEI§E

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
Final Order has been provided by U.S. Mail to James C. Dozier, M.D.,
Indian River Memorial Hospital, Dapartment of Emergency Medicine,
1000—36th Street, Vero Beach, Florida 32960; to James Farrell,
Esquire, Shutts & Brown, Post Office Box 3555, West Palm Beach,
Florida 33402-3555; and by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson,
Jr.. Chief Attorney, Agency for Health Care Administration, 2727 Mahan
Drive, Tallahassee, Florida 323DB-5403, on or before 5:00 p.m., this

day of , 1997.

 

33. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
453.331f1)(t), Florida statutes, and is guilty of gross or repeated
malpractice or the failurp to practice medicine with that level of
care, skill and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances.

nun o

34. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through thirty (30), and thirty-two (32] as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

35. Respondent is guilty of failing to keep written medical
records justifying the course of treatment of the patient in that
Respondent failed to record in Patient G.F.'s medical records,
Patient G.F.’s complete medical history including past personal and
family medical history and current medication regimen, Respondent
failed to document the performance of a thorough examination of
Patient G.F. to include a complete review of systems in order to
completely assess Patient G.F.'s complaints and condition, and
Respondent failed to document his examination and treatment of
Patient G.F., his review of the abnormal and laboratory and anay
findings and his interventions in response to said findings.

36. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(m}, Florida statutes, and is guilty of failing to keep
written medical records justifying the course of treatment of the
patient, including, but not limited to, patient histories;

examination results; test results; records of drugs prescribed,

dispensed, or administered; and reports of consultations and
hospitalizations.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: permanent revocation or suspension of the Respondent's
license, restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuénce of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, the assessment of costs related to the
investigation and prosecution of this case, other than costs
associated with an attarney’s time, as provided for in Section
455.227(3), Florida statutes, andXor any other relief that the
Board deems appropriate.

SIGNED this 2"- day of TM , 1996.

Douglas M. Cook Director

  

 

arr G. McPherson, 1'.
Chi f Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR AGENCY: .
F l L E D

Larry G. McPherson, Jr. meucvmﬂ
Chief Medical Attorney HEALTHCABEADHIHI‘STWDN
Agency for Health Care Administration wmm

1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792

Florida Bar #733643 DATE 132,915
RPC/Edb

PCP: February 15, 1996
Slade, Cerda, and Scour:

 

STATE OF FLORIDA ' 7
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE
ADMINISTRATION.

Petitioner,
v. AHCA CASE NO. 93-20295
JAMES C DOZEER, MD"

Respondem.

I
CON SENT AGREEMENT

James C. Dozier, MD, referred to as the ”Respondent,“ and die Agency for Health Care
Admirﬁsrration. referred to as "Agency," stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and m the
entry of a Firm] Order of the Board ufMedicine, refened to as “Board,“ inwrporan'ng the Stipulated
Facts and Stipulaied Disposition in this matter.

STIPULATED FACTS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed physician in the State of Florida
haVing been issued license number ME 00479? 1.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint ﬁled by Ihe Agency and
properly served upon Respondent with violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules

enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy ofme Administrative Complaint is attached hereto

as Exhibit A
3. Respondent admits the allegations of fact contained in lhe AdministraLive Complaint
for purposes ofthese proceedings only.

STJI’ULATED QONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed physician, he is subject to the
provisions ofChapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutm, and thcjurisdiction ofthe Agency and the Board,

2. prondent admits that the ﬁnds set forth in the Adminisuative Camplalm, ifprcwen,
would constitute violaﬁons of Chapter 458, Fiorida Statutes, as alleged in the Adnﬁnisn‘ative
Complaint.

3, 11anth admits that The. Stipulaied Disposition in this case is fair, appropriate and
accepmbie to Respondent.

STEP TED DISPOSITION

1. FUTURE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the ﬁJture violate Chapters 455, 458
and 893, Florida Statutes, or the mics promulgated pursuant thereto. Pﬁor to signing this agreement,
Respondent read Chapters 455, 458, and 893, Florida Statutes, and the Rules of the Buard of
Medicine, at Swim 59R, Florida Administrative Code.

2. __FL\TE__. The, Board shall impose an administrative ﬁne in the amount of $1,000 (one
thousand dollars) against the Respondent The ﬁne shall be paid by Lhe Respondent to the Board of
Medicine within NINETY [961 days of its imposition by Final Order of the Board. THE
RESPONDENT ACICNOWLEDGES THAT THE TDEELY PAYNIENT OF THE FINE IS
EISI'BSER LEGAL OBLIGATION AND RESPONSIBILITY AND THE RESPONDENT
AGREES TO CEASE PRACTICING IF THE FINE IS NOT PAID AS AGREED TO IN THIS
CONSENT AGREEMENT, SPECIFICALLY: IF THE RES?ONDENT HAS NOT

RECEIVED WRITTEN CONFIRMATION THAT THE FULL AMOUNT OF THE FINE

HAS BEEN RECEIVED BY THE BOARD OFFICE W'ITHJN 90 DAYS OF TEI‘. FILING OF
THIS FINAL ORDER. THE RESPONDENT AGREES TO CHASE PRACTICE UNTIL
SUCH WRITTEN CONFIRMATION IS RECEH’ED BY THE RESPONDENT FROM THE
BOARD. (SEE EXHIBIT B. PARAGRAPH 1 OF THIS CONSENT AGREENEENT FOR

BOARD ADDRESS AND STANDARD TERMS).

4. EEBRJMAND. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand from the Board of
Medicine.

5. CONTINUING MEDICAL EDUCATION. Wimm two years ofthe ﬁling ofthe Final
Order incorporating the terms of this agreement, Respondent shall attend twenty (20) extra hours of
Category I Continuing Medical Education in the area ofEmergency Medicine. Respondent shall submit
a written plan to ﬁle Chairman of the Prnbaticmer’s Committee for appruval prior to the completion of
said contmumg educaliun hours. The Board confers authority on the Chain'nan of the Probaiionefs
Committee to approve or disapprove said continuing education hours. In addition, Respondent shall
submit documentation in the form of' certiﬁed mpies of the receipts, vouchers, certiﬁcates, or other
papers. such as physician's recognition awards, documenting completion of these medical education
courses within one (1) year of the entry Othe Final Order in this matter. All such documentation shall
be sent to the Board of Medicinehﬂggaﬂess of whaher some or 31;}: of such documentation was

previously grovidad durinE the wurse of any audit or discussion with munsel for the AgencL Thw:

hours shall be in addition to those hours required for renewal of licensurc.
Unless otherwise approved by the BOEICL said continuing medical education wurm shall mnsist ofa

formal, live lecmre format.

6. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is Subject to the approval of the 130ml
and the Agency. In this regard, the foregoing paiagraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs) shall
have no force and eﬁect unless a Final Order incorporating the terms ufthis Agreement is entered by
the Board.

7. Respendent shall appear before the Board at the meeting of the Board where this
Agreement is considered. Resspondent, in wnjunetion with the consideration of this Agreement by the
Board, shall respond to questions under oath ﬁrm the Board, Board Staﬁ" or Agency Staff.
Respondent shall be prepared to expiaih the cirwmslant‘es involved in this matter and what measures
have been taken to prevent a recurrence.

3. Shauld this Agreement be rejected, an statement made in funherance of this
Agreement by the Respondent may be used as direct evidence against the Respondent in any
proceeding; however, such statements ma},r be used by the Petitioner for impeachment purposes.

9‘ Respondent and the Agency ﬁJIJy understand that this joint Agreement and subsequent
Final Order incorporating same will in no way preclude addilionai proceedings by Ihe Board andfor the
Agency against the Respondent for acts er omissions not speciﬁcally set forth in the Admh'listrative
Complaint attached as Exhibil "A" herein.

10. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent expressly waives 311 further
procedural steps, and exprﬁsiy waives all rights to seekjudicial review of or to othenvise challenge or
contest the validity ofthe Agreement and the Final Order of the Board incorporating said Agreement.

11. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, the patties hereby agee that each party

will hear his own attorney’s fees and costs resulting ﬁ'om prnmtion or defense of this matter,

Respondent waives the right to seek any anomey’s fees or costs ﬁrm the Agency in connection with
[his matter.

12. This Agreement is executed by the Respﬁndenf. for the purpose of avoiding ﬁmher
adrrﬁnistralive action with reaped to this cause. In this regard, Respondem authorizes the Board to
rwiew and examine all invwﬁgative ﬁle maledals ooncenﬁng Respondent prior to or in conjunction
with consideration uflhe Agreement. Funhennore, should thisjoint Agrwnmt not be accepted by the
Board, it is agreed Ihal presentaﬁon to and consideration of this Agrea‘nent and other documents and
mattaxs by the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or any of its members from
ﬁirther participation, consideration or resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED thisfrfday of June. 1997.

Jam C.Dozier,M.D

Before me, personally appeared :iéﬂg g: hm ig: Hfb , whose identity is known to me

by pg m “a k (-3th (type of identiﬁcaLinn) and who, under oath, acimowledges that

hislher signature appears above.

Sworn to and subscribed before me lhis 8%“ day of Ci; ﬁg 1997

NO% ARY EUBLIC

3w. u.-:.Lr.’1A.\-I'M1LI5.=_L

ru.-?'II€-:me¢ 5;, 5th.“ .7: "
h‘a ccscazn

WWW” ”H. ,__
ﬂ

My Commission Expires: 9i ".9 inc

 
  
 

APPROVED thisgi/day of

  

By: Larry G. McPherson, Jr.
ChiefAtzomey
Medical Section

EXHIBIT B
STANDARD TERMS APPLICABLE TO CONSENT AGREEMENTS

The following are the standard terms applimble to all consent agreements, including

supervision and monitoring provisions applicable to licensees on probation.
A PAYMENT OF FINES. Unless otherwise direaed by the consent ageement,
ail ﬁnes shall be paid by check or money order and sent to the Board address set forth in paragraph F.

below. The Board ofﬁce does not have the authority to change the terms of payment of any ﬁne

imposed by the Board.
B. COMMUNITY SERVICE AND CONTINJJING EDUCANOWS.

Unless otherwise directed by the consent agreemeng all eonunurﬁty sewiee requirements, continuing

education unitycourses must be mmpleted, and dowrnentation of such completion submitted to the

Board efMedicine at the address set form below in pwagraph E, WITHIN TWO YEARS OF THE

DATE OF THE FINAL ORDER.

C. LAWS AND RULES EXAMJNATION. Unless othemrisc directed by the
cnnsent agreemeng the Respondent shall Lake and obtain a score of at lean 70% correct on the Laws
and Rules Examination within six months of the Final Order, The Respondent shall notify the Agency
at least one week prior to the date he wishes to take the examination to schedule a time for the
examination 21 one ofthe Agency’s Investigative Oﬁﬁeee. The Respondent may take the examination as
many times as needed to obtain a passing snore of T0%. Contact Donna Brown, (904) 487-9672, at
the Agency for Health Care Administration1 to schedule a time for the examination, or to answer any

questions.

3—1

D. ADDRESSES. Respondent must keep wrrent residence and practice
addresses on ﬁle with the Board. Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (10) days of any
changes of said addresses. Furthennore. if the Respondent's license is on probation, the Respondent
shalt notify the Board within ten {10) days in the event that Respondent leaves the active practice of
medicine in Florida.

E. QQSJ‘; Pmsuant to Setrtinn 453.3310), Florida Statutes. the Respondent
shall pay all costs necessaJy to comply with the terms of this Consent Agreement. Such costs include,
but are not limited to, the costs of preparation of Investigative Reports detailing mmplianee with the
terms of the Consent Agreement, obtaining supervision or monitoring of the practice, the cost of
quality assurance reviews, and the Board's admhﬁstraﬁve costs directly associated with Rmpondent‘s
probation.

F. BOARD ADDRESS. Unless otherwise directed by the Board ofﬁce, all ﬁnes,
reports, wnespondence and inquizies shall be sent to: Board of Medicine, 1940 North Monroe
Street1 Tallahassee. Florida 32399-0792, Attn: Final Order Compliance Ofﬁcer.

6. PROBATION TERMS. 1f probation was imposed by the F'Lnai Order orthe
Board, the following provisions axe apptieable

l. DEEIEI l IQNS:
a. INDERECT ﬁg JEERWSIQN is supewision by a monitoﬁng
physician (murmur) whose responsibilities are set by the Board. Indirect supervision does not require
that the monitor practice on the same premises as the Respondent, however, the monitor shall practice

within a reasonable geographic proximity to Respondmt, which stall be within 20 miles unless

