STATE OF FLORIDA
BOARD OF MEDICINE

Finn! Urdu No. DOH-D9v_ll_6ﬁ- S MQA 0mg #0 ' 9‘71
. ,_, FILED
DEPARTMENT OF HEAL“ H ' Department nflIcnhh

Angela {Inﬂ‘ AGENCY CLERK‘
5

Petitioner, B , . i“
Ekpuly Agm y Clark ‘

VS. CASE NO.: 93-13620
LICENSE ND. : MEUO41355

VICTOR M. SERALDE, M.D.,

Respondent.

 

ELH£L_QBQEE

THIS CAUSE came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant to
Sections 120.569 and 120.57(&J, Florida Statutes, on August 6. 1999,
in Coral Gables, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement
(attached hereto as Exhibit A} entered into between the parties in the
above—styled cause. Upon consideration of the Consent Agreement, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the partiesr
and being Utherwise advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in tato and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall

adhere to and abide by all the terms and conditions of the Consent

Agreement .

This Final Order shall take effect upon being filed with the

Clerk hf the Department of Health.

3: DP
DONE AND ORDERED this “4) day of , 4' ' . 1999.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

    

S CERDA. N.DV
CHAIRMAN

C RTIF

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
Final Order has been provided by 5.8. Mail to Victor M. Seralde, M.D‘,
1833 North Lucine Road, Avon Park! Florida 33825—9590; to Wilson Jerry
Foster, Esquire, 1342 Timberlane Road, Suite 101A, Tallahassee,
Florida 32312—17?5; and by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson.

Jr., Chief Attorney. Agancy for Health Care Administration, 2727 Mahan
Drive, Tallahassee, Flerida 32303—5403, on or before 5:00 p.m., this

day of . 1999.

quality assurance reviews, and the Board's administrative cost dire'ctiy associated with [he __
Responds: nt's probation.
E. BOARD ADDRESS. Unless otherwise directed by the Board ofﬁce, all ﬁnes,

reports, correspondence and inquiries shall be sent to: Bnard of Medicine, 2020 Capital Circle,

SE, Bin # C03, Tallahasscc,Flurida 32399-3253,Atm: Final Order Compliance Ofﬁcer.

. STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

AGENCY FOR HEALTH

CARE ADMINISTRATION,
PETITIONER,

v. CASE NO. 9343620

VICTOR M. SERALDE, M.D.,

RESPONDENT.

vvuuuvvvuwv

 

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Agency for Health Car: Administration, hereinafter
referred in as “Petitioner,” and ﬁles this Adminisuativc Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against Victor Mt Seralde, M.D., hereinafter referred to as “Respondent,“ and allages:

1. Petitioner is the state agent); charged with regulating the practice of medicine pursuant
to Section 20.42, Florida Statutes; Chapter 455.'F101-ida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material harem a licensed physician in the
state of Fiorida, having been issued license number ME 0041355. Respondent’s last known
address is 1333 N. Lucine Rd, Avon Park, FI; 33825-9590.

3. On or about November 1, 1991, Patient J.C_, a seventy (7U) year-oid woman,
prestntcd [0 Respondent with a complaint of ”Bronchitis and Shortness of Brtath." Respondent

diagnosed Patient LC. as suffering congestive heart failurc, but ordered no diagnostic tests bx:

performed. Respondent‘s examination Ul'PatEent LC. was also minimel. including an inadequate
patient history that noted rm previous or current cardiac complaints other than shortness of <
breath; In response to the patient‘s condition, Respondent prescribed a combination of Lanaxin
[slows heart rate] .5 mgms POQD for three days. Lasix [diuretic] 40 mg and h’linitrans [evasive
diiator] patch of4 mgms daily.

4. On or about November 4. 1991. Patient 10 presented to Respundent for follow up
diagnostic testing. Again, Respondent failed to document a detailed and adequate history 01‘ the
patient. The diagnostic testing performed 011 Patient 1C. included an EKG. the ﬁrst such taken. a
chest x-ray, hematology studies and other lab tests. but no electroiytes were drawn
5. On or about November 4, 1991, Respondent also ordered the patient's cardiac
arrhythmias be gauged with a Halter Monitor, that ultimately revealed Patient LC. as sutTering
with “Iateral ischemia." The diagnosis of iateral ischemia was afﬁrmed by the aforementioned
EKG. Respondcm, however, documented no comment regarding the rate and rhythm of the
patient‘s heart. In response to the patient‘s condition, Respondent added Cardizem [calcium
channei bioeker] 60 mgms three times daily to Patient I.C.‘s regimen of Lanoxin, Lasix and
Miniu'ans.

6. On or about November 5. 1991. Patient .1.C. presented to Respondent For follow up
complaining of nausea and to discuss the diagnosis of lateral isahemia. In response to the
patient’s condition, Respondent, without ordering additional diagnostic studies, added Phencrgan

25 mgms twice daily. Inderal LA [beta blocker} SD mgms and Cardene [calcium channel blocker!

30 mgms dailyr to her medication regimen. A reasonably prudent similiar physician would have

rccognizcd that the use of Inderal in the Face of congestive heart failure was contraindicated,
eSpccially in light ofthc patients prescribed drug combinatiun.

7'. On or about November 8, 1991, Patient LC. presented to Rcspondem for follow up
again complaining of nausea. Respondent ordered an EKG that again showed the patient as
suffering lateral ischemia, but with a notahtc slowing ofthe patient‘s heart ratc: to sixty—two (62)
beats per minute. Chest x—rays taken that day also reported as negative. Resmmdem, however,
in spite of the clearing of Patient J.C.‘s congestive heart failure. as evidenced by the negative
chest x-ray. decreased heart rate‘ and his owr: failure to detect any ongoing signs of congestive
heart failure or myopathy, increased tht: patients‘ Cardene prescription to 30 mgms POTLD.
Respondent then determined that Patient J.C. shuuld be referred to a cardiologist 3.5 a candidate
for a possible permement pacemaker.

8. On or about the evening of November 8, I991, Patient I.C, was admitted to an
outpatient ward of Walker Memorial Hospital suffering chest pain and nausea. A short stay
summary described the patient as having suffered a syncope with third degree heart block. Whilt:
in Watkcr Memot‘lai, Patient LC. suffered a cardiopulrnonar},r arrest following complete heart
block. Ultimatefy, she was transferrad to Florida Hospital with an admitting diagnosis of arrest.
cerebral anoxic, and the eventual implantation of a pacemaker. Respondent‘s admitting orders at
Florida Hospital failed to include a CBC [complete blood count], SMA [sequential multiple:
analyzer] or a speciﬁc order for electrolytes. In response [a the patient's condition upon
admission, Respondent ordered CPK [creatine phosphokinase], LDH [lactic dehydrogenase] and

Digoxin level tests. Respondent also prescribed additional Lanoxin and Cardizem, along with

L»

Nitro Paste and Ordered that the patient be given intravcnus ﬂuids in the form of 1351113 normal
saline at 100 cc per hour.

9. During on Or about the night DINovembcr 8, 1991, through the morning ofNovember
9, 1991. Patient LC. suffered another cardiopulmonary arrest following c0mp1ete heart block.
According to Patient J.C.'s written medical mcurds, Respondent again failed to speciﬁcally order
the patient's electrolytes. When such were ordered, at or about 3:30 am. on or about November
9, 1991, it was not done so by Respondent.

COUNT ONE

10. Petitioner manages and incorporates paragraphs one (1) through nine (9), as if fully
set forth herein this Count One.

I 1. Respondent practiced medicine below the acceptable standard of care in that
Respondent: failed to document 2m adequatc patient medical history for Patient J .C.; failed to
determine Patient .1.C.'s clcctrulytes after ordering her piaced on intravenus ﬂuids; and
prescribed em excessive regiman of medication wiLhout adequate documentation justifying Lhe
reasons for such use.

12. Based upon the foregoing, ReSpondent violated Section 453.331f1)(t). Horida
Statutes, through gross or repeated malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that lcvel
of calm. skill. and treatmtnt which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physician as
being acceptable under similar conditions and circumstances.

13. Pelitio‘ner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (I) thraugh nine (9) and eleven

(11), as if fully set forth herein this Count Two.

14. Respondtm Failed to keep adequate written mﬁdical records 1' n that Respondent: failed
to document am adequaic patient medical history for Patient J.C.; and failed to justify through I
adequate documentation the necessity for [be excessive and redundant combination of
medications prescribed for Paticnt J.C.

[5. Based upon the Forcgoing, Respondent violated Section 458.331U)(m). Florida
Statutes, by failing to keep written medical records justifying the course of trcalment of the
patient. including, but nut limited to, patient hismries; examination results; test results; records 0!‘
drugs prescribed. diapensed. or administered; and reports ot‘consultatfons and hospitalizations.

COUNT THREE

16. Pelitioner rcallcgcs and incorporates paragraphs one (I) through nine {9). eleven (1 1)
and fourteen (14), as if fully set 1°0th herein this Count Three.

17. Reapondenl inappropriately prescribed a legend drug in that Respondent presaribed
for Patient J.C. an excessive and redundant combination of medications without adequate
documentation for their use and selection other [hat] for the use of Lanoxin, Lasix and Minitrans.

13. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent violated Section 458.331f1)(q), Florida
Statutes, by prescribing, dispensing, administering, mixing or otherwise preparing a lcgend drug,
including any committal substance. oiher than in the course of the physician’s professional
practice.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfuliy requests the Board of Medicine enter an order
imposing cm: or more of the following penalties: permanent rﬁvocation or suspension of the
Resinondenl's license, restriction of the Respondent‘s practice. imposition of an administralive

ﬁne, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the Respondent on probation, the assessment of costs

related 10 the investigation any! prosecution of [his case, other than costs associated with an

attorney‘s time. as provided for in Section 455.2270). Florida Statutes. anwor any other relief -

that the Board deems appropriate,

SIGNEDIhis_ 7 dayaf WM .1997.

Douglas M‘ Cook. Director

  

/%

Larry G. McPherson, J
ChieFMedica] Anom y

 

COUNSEL FOR AGENCY:

Larry G. McPherson. Jr.

Chiaf Medical Attorney F l L EFO?

Agency for Health Care Administration AGENCY N .
P. 0. Box 14229 HEALTH ngﬁgmdﬂgﬁmm 3%”
Tallahassee, Florida 323114229 D _ 1‘7 ‘ 9-

Florida Bar ii 788643 cLEHK/ltf m

RPCst DATE___—:i:—————_

PCP: February 23‘ 1997
PCP Members: Winchester and Parduc

STATE OF FLORIDA —
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH,

Petitioner,

AHCA CASE NO. 93-13620
VICTORM. SERALDE,M.D.,

Respondent.
1"

CONSENT AGREEMENT _

Victor M. Seraide, Mil, referred to as the "Respondent," and Department of Health.
referral to as “Department of Health," stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and to the
entry ofa Final Order OfIhC Board of Medicine, referred to as "Board," incorporating the Stipulated
Facts and Stipulated Disposition in this matter.

EffectiVE July 1, 1997, Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the practicé
of medicine pursuant to Section 20.43, Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes. and
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 20.438), Florida Statutes,
the Petitiuner has contracted with the Agency for Health Care Administration to provide
consumer Eomplaint, investigative, and prosecutorial services required by the Division of

Medical Qualit},r Assurance, councils, 0r boards, as appropriate.

STIPULATED FACTS

1. At ail times material hereto, Reapendent was a licensed physici an in the State of
Florida having been issued license number ME 0041355. -

2. The Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint ﬁled by the
Department and properly served upon the Respondent with Violations of Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, and the rules enacted pursuant thereto. A Ime and correct cepy of the Administrative
Complaintis attached hereto as Exhibit A,

3. Keepandent neither admits nor denies the allegations of fact contained in the
AdministrativeComplaint.

STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. The Resgondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed physician, he is subject to
the provisionsef Chapters455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and thejurisdictiormf the Departmentand
the Beard.

2. The Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the Administrative Complaint, if
proven, would constitute violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the
AdministrativeComplaint.

3. ' Respondent admits that the Stipulated Disposition in this case is fair, appropriate

and acceptable to Respondent.

SHPULATEDDISPOSITION
1. FUTURE CONDUCT. The Respondent shall not in the ﬁtture violate Chapters

455. 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated pursuant thereto. Prior to signing this

N

o

agreement, the Respondent shall read Chapters 455, 453, 893 and the Rules of the Board of;
Medicine, at Scctioh 6438, Florida Administrative Code.

2. ADMINISTRATIVE FINE. The Board shall impose an administrative ﬁne ih the
amount of $5000.00 dollars against the Respondent. The ﬁne shall be paid by the Respondent to
the Board of Medicine within one (1) year of its imposition by Final Order of the Board THE
RESPONDENT ACKNOW’LEDCES THAT THE TIMELY PAYMENT OF THE FINES IS
HISIHER LEGAL OBLIGATION AND RESPONSIBILITY AND THE RESPONDENT
AGREES TO CEASE PRACTICING IF THE FINE IS NOT PAID AS AGREED TO IN
THIS CONSENT AGREEMENT, SPECIFICALLY: IF THE RESPONDENT HAS NOT
RECEIVED WRITTEN CONFIRMATION THAT THE F ULL AMOUNT OF THE FINE
HAS BEEN RECEIVED BY THE BOARD OFFICE W'ITHIN ONE {1) YEAR OF THE
FILING OF THIS FINAL ORDER, THE RESPONDENT AGREES TO CEASE
PRACTICE UNTIL SUCH WRITTEN CONFIRMATION IS RECEIVED BY THE
RESPONDENT FROM THE BOARD. (SEE EXHIBIT B, PARAGRAPH 1 OF THIS
C ONSENT AGREEMENT FOR BOARD ADDRESS AND STANDARD TERMS).

3. FMA MEDICAL RECORD COURSE. Respondent shall complete the Florida
Medical Association course on medical records keeping within six (6)1nonths 0f the Final Order of
the Board. In addition, Respondent shall submit documentation in the form of certiﬁed copies of
thc receipfs, vouchers, cerLEﬁcates, or other papers, such as physician's recognition awards,
documenting completion of this medical education course within six (6) months 0fthe ﬁiing 0f the

Final Order incorporating this Agreement. All such documentation shall be sent to the Board of

Medicine. regardless of whether some or anv of such documentation was nreviouslv provided
durlrg the comma of am“ audit or discussionwith counsel for the Depamnent. These hours shall be
in addition to those required for renewal of licensure. Unless othenvjse approved by [he Beard,
said continuing medical education courses shall ecnsist of a live, lecture format.

4, Continuing Medical Education Within one year of the date of the ﬁling of a Final
Order in this cause, Respondent shall attend twenty (20) hours of Continuing Medical Education
(CME), in diagnosis, treatment and management of cardiac problems like congestive heart failure
including pharmacoiogy of drug interaction, Respondent shalt submit a written plan to Lhe
Chairman of the Board for approval prior to the completion of said continuing education hours and
course. The Board confers authority on the Chairman of the Board to approve or disapprove said
continuing education hours or course. In addition, Respondent shall submit documentation in the
form of certiﬁed copies of the receipts, vouchers, certiﬁcates, or other papers, such as physician's
recognition awards, documenting completion of this medical course within one (1) year of the entry'
of the Final Order in this matter. All such documentation shall be sent to the Board of Medicine,
regardless of whether some or anv of such documentation was miouslv provided during the
course ofanv audit or discussion with counsel for the Department. These hours shall be in addition
to those hours required for renewal of licensure. UnIess otherwise approved by the Board, said

continuing medical education course shall consist of a format, live lecture format.

:1. Respondent shall receive a reprimand from the Board ot‘Medicine.

STANDARD PROVISIONS
, This Censent Agreement shall be governed to the extent applicable by the attached
” Standard Terms Applicable to Consent Agreemants", Exhibit B, which is incorporated as iffully
set forth herein

1. It is expressly understood thanhis Agreementis subject to the approval ofihe Board
and Lhe Department. In this regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs)
shail have no force and effect unless a Final Order incorporating the terms of this Agreement is
entered by the Board.

2. Respondent is required to appear before the Board at the meeting of the Board
where Lhis Agreement is considered.

3. Respondent and the Department [Cull],r understand that this joint agreemﬁnt and
subsequent Final Order incorporating samc will in no way preclude additionai proceedings againsl
Respondent for acts or omissions not Speciﬁcally set forth in the AdministrativeComplaim attached
as Exlﬁbit "A" herein.

4. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent expressly waives all
further procedural steps, and expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise
challenge DI contest Lhe validity of Lhe Agreemant and the Final Order of the Board incorporating
said Agreerﬁcnt.

5. Upon The Board's adoption of this Agreement, the parties hereby agree that each

party will bear his own attorney's fees and costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this

' A

matter. Respondent waives the right 1:0 seek any attorney‘s fees or costs from the Department in

connection with this matter.

6, This agreement is executed by the Respondent for the purpose of avoiding Further:
administrative action with respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondentamhorizes the Board :0
review and examine all investigative ﬁlo materials concerning Respondent prior to ur in
conj unciion with consideration of the Agreembnt. F urthermorc, should this joint Agreement 1101 be
accepted by the Board, i1 is agreed that presentation to and consideration of this Agreement and
other documents and matters by the Board shall not unfairly 0r illegally prejudice the Board or any

of its members from further participation, consideration, or resolution OfIhese proceedings.

VICTORM. SERALDE, MD. _
Beforc me, personaliy appcared 1/ g'cﬁr m. SPF; g2 ,wbuse identity is know so me by
[’13ch / N! (type of identiﬁcation) and who, under oath. nclmuwledges mat

hisfher si run: appears above.

Swan: to and subscribed before me this 1 7 '— day of ﬂférg .1999.

N T YPUBLIC
rr-

 

‘:4’Y‘I

- w

I

My Commission Expires: may? 2419/

.a ROGER .POLK
! ‘. .J/ Mymmm. mp. Maya. 2001
.4 Comm.No.COﬁG.9533

APPROVED this (a day of EM ,1999.

Robert 0. Brooks, M.D., Secretary

 

   

G. McPherson Jr.
Chi f Attorney
Medical Section

 

.1

Mm
STANDARD TERMS APPLICABLE TO CONSENT AGREENEENTS
The following standard term-s are applicable to this Consent Agree ment.

A. PAYMENT OF FINES. Unless otherwise directed by the Consent Agreement, all
ﬁnes shall be paid by check or money order and sent to ﬁne Board address set forth in paragraph E
below. The Board ofﬁce does not have the aqthority to change the terms ofpayment of any ﬁne
imposed by the Board.

B. COMMUNITY SERVICE AND CONTINUING EDUCATION UNITS. Unless
otherwise directed by the Consent Agreement, all community service requirements, continuing
education um'tsfcourses must be completed, and documentation ofsuch compietion submitted to the
Board of Medicine at the address set forth below in paragraph E, WITHIN ONE YEAR OF THE
DATE OF THE FINAL ORDER.

C. ADDRESSES. Respondent must keep current residence and practice addresses on
ﬁle with the Board. Respondentshaﬂ nuiify the Board within ten (10) days of any changes of said
addresses. Furthermore, if the Respondent's license is On probatiort, the Respondent shall notify
the Board within ten (1 0) days in the event that Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine
in Florida.

D. §Q§_T_S_. Pursuant to Section 458‘331{2),Florida Statutes, the Respondent shall pay
all costs neEessary to comply with the terms of this Consent Agreement. Such costs include, but
are not limited to, the cost of preparation of Investigative Reports detailing compliance with the

terms of the Consent Agreement, obtaining supervision or monitoring of the practice, the cost of

