STATE OF FLORIDA
BOARD OF MEDICINE

l<'inal0rder1~¥mDOH-99~0537-s ~MQA Dates * l7 ' C7 C1
DE PARTMENT OF HEALTH , FILED _\

Department of Hcalth
‘ . ge HﬂIAGENCthERK
Petltloner, ’\ \
By . }2
Deputy Ag: cy Clerk

vs. CASE NO.: 93—20678
LICENSE NO.: ME0039946

GREGORY RICHARD WHITE, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

 

1:11,: AL QRDEE
THIS CAUSE came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant to
Sections 120.569 and 120.57(4), Florida Statutes, on April 10, 1999,
in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the
above—styled cause. Upon considefghieh 8f the Consent Agreement, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the partie;;hyw>w
and being otherwise advised in the premises,
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED thah the Consent Agreement as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all the terms and conditions of the Consent
Agreement‘ L

This Final Order shall take effect upon being filed with the

Clerk of the Department of Health.

DONE AND ORDERED this day Of , 1999.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

WWQ/ﬁ

JAM CERDA, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

CERTIFIQATE QF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
Final Order has been provided by U.S. Mail to Gregory White, M.D.,
Quality Care Bartow, 3077 Shoal Creek Village Drive, Lakeland, Florida
33803, and by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief
Attorney, Agency for Health Care Administration, 2727 Mahan Drive,
Tallahassee, Florida 32308—5403, on or before 5:00 p.m., this 5 2

day of i, , 1999.

{5%52)‘

terms of the Consent Agreement, obtaining supervision or monitoring of the practice, the cost of
quality assurance reviews, and the Board's administrative cost directly associated with the
Respondent’s pgegggion.

E. BOARD ADDRESS. Unless otherwise directed by the Board ofﬁce, all ﬁnes,
reports, correspondence and inquires shall be sent to: Board of Medicine, 2020 Capi‘al Circle,

SE, Bin # C03, Tallahassee, Florida 32399»3253,Attn: Final Order Compliance Ofﬁcer.

u(«.
%

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH,
PETITIONER,
v. CASE NO. 93~20678
GREGORY RICHARD WHITE, M.D.,

RESPONDENT.

 

AMENDED ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Health, hereinafter referred to as
“Petitioner,” and ﬁles this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
Gregory R. White, M.D., hereinafter referred to as “Respondent,’; and alleges:

1. Effective July 1, 1997, Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the
practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.43, Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes,

5 and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2043(3), Florida
Statutes, the Petitioner has contracted with the Agency for Health Care Adrﬁimstratlon to provide
consumer complaint, investigative, and prosecutorial services required by the Division of
Medical Quality Assurance, councils, or boards, as appropriate.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times maten‘al hereto a licensed physician in the
state of Florida, having been issued license number ME 0039946. Respondent’s last known
address is Quality Care Bartow, 1750 Broadway, Bartow, Florida 33830.

3. Respondent is board certiﬁed in EmergencyMedicine.

4. During the period of 1992 through 1993, Respondent owned and operated three
medical clinics: Quality Care Bartow, Quality Care North, and Quality Care South. During such
time, Michael Cogdill, Advanced Registered Nurse Practitioner [ARNP], was employed at
Quality Care North and Quality Care South, working under the supervision of Respondent.

5. From on or about January 12, 1988, until on or about October 27, 1993, Patient Al,
3 sixty—seven (67) year old female, presented to Respondent’s ofﬁce approximately thirty-nine
(39) times for treatment of various ailments. From on or about January 14, 1991, until on or
about October 27, 1993, the patient was treated approximately twelve times for control of high
blood pressure, insulin dependent diabetes mellitus, and other related conditions. ARNP Cogdill,
while under the supervision of Respondent, was Patient J.A.’s treating practitioner dun'ng most
of the latter twelve visits. Included in Patient J.A.’s treatment were léboratory tests, x—rays, of
her left ﬁngers, at self—referral to Nutri—Systems for weight 1053, and a consultation with an
internist.

6 rDur‘ing the approximate three (3) year period of January 14, 1991 through October
27, 1993, a complete history and physical examination with report of ﬁndings was not
performed.

7. During the same three (3) year period, Patient J.A. did not receive proper treatment
and instruct’xgh for her insulin dependent diabetes mellitus in that there is no documentation
related to diabetic foot care and no documentation of ‘evaluation or instruction {elated to
opthamology or eye care as related to diabetes. Further, follow—up visits did not occur for
periods of six (6) months or greater.

8. During the same three (3) year period, ARNP Cogdill, made adjusgments to Patient

J.A.’s insulin dosage which was outside of the 'written protocols of his practice under

Respondent. ARNP Cogdill further allowed and assisted in a trial period of an oral
hypoglycemic agent requested by the patient.

91 On or about May 21, 1992, Patient J.A. presented to Respondent’s ofﬁce and was
evaluated by ARNP Cogdill who ordered blood work. Patient J.A.’s lab work revealed an
elevated BUN and creatinine which can be indications of chronic renal failure. No f011ow—up or
further studies were ordered and the possible chronic renal failure was not diagnosed or treated.

10. On or about October 27,1993,Patient J. A. presehted to Respondent’ 5 ofﬁce
complaining of abdominal pain. ARNP Cogdill ordered a urinalysis that subsequently revealed
excessive protein and large amounts of blood in the urine. Very little follow—up was documented
11.- 131: medical records.

11. Chapter 6‘4B8—35.002 (formerly 59R), Florida Administrative Code, mandates that
an ARNP shall only perform medical acts of diagnesis, treatment, and operation pursuant to a
protocol between the ARNP and a licensed supervising physician. The degree and method of
supervision, determined by the ARNP and the supervising physician, and descriptions of the
ARNP’s duties, shall be speciﬁcally identiﬁed in the written protocol. However, general
supervision by the supervising physician is required unless the Board’s rules set a different level
of supervisien for a particn? :31" act

*- COUNT ONE

12. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1) through eleven (11'), as if
fully set forth herein this Count One.

13. Respondent practiced medicine below the standard of care in that Respondent,
through a lack of supervision of ARNP Cogdill, failed to obtain a comprehensive history and

perform a physical examination, failed to properly treat Patient J.A.’s insulin dependent diabetes;

failed to assign proper and timely follow—up for her diabetes; failed to document whether
immunizations for tetanus, pneumonia or inﬂuenza were offered even though her condition
called for it; inappropriately allowed self—referral to Nutri—Systems for weight control despite the
potential dangers involved; and, failed to recognize and properly treat Patient J.A.’s developing
chronic renal failure as evidenced by rising BUN, creatinine levels, and excessive protein in the
mine.

14. Based on the foregoing, Respondent is guilty of violating Section 458.331(1)(t),
Florida Statutes, through gross or repeated malpractice, or the failure to practice medicine with
that level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar

physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and circumstances.

9mm

15. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1) through eleven (11) and
paragraph thirteen (13) as if fully set forth herein this Count Two.

16. Respondent is guilty of violating a rule of the board by failing to properly supervise
ARNP Cogdill in his treatment of patients pursuant to Rule 64B8-35.002, Florida Administrative
Code. Respendent further failed to document any supervision or discussion of the care rendered
to Patient 13333 perfonned hy ARNP.

1‘1. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent is in violation of Section 458.331(1)(x),
Florida Statutes, by violating any provision ef this chapter, a rule of the board or department, or a
lawﬁll order of the board or department previously entered in a disciplinary healing or failing to

comply with a lawfully issued subpoena of the depaxtment.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner tespectfully requests the Board of Medicine enter an order
imposing one or more of the following penalties: permanent revocation or suspension of the
Respondent’s license, restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an administrative
ﬁne, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the Respondent on probation, the assessment of costs
related to the investigation and prosecution of this case, other than costs associated with an
attorney’s time, as provided for in Section 455.624(3), Florida Statutes, and/or any other relief
that the Board deems appropriate.

SIGNED this 30 day of W ,1998.

J ames T. Howell, M.D., Secretary

    

Larry G. McPh son, Jr.

 

Chief Medical Attorney
COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:
Larry G. McPherson, Jr. v I ‘
ChiefMedicai Attorney ‘ ' ‘ ' ‘ " . F i LE:
Agency for Health Care Administration _ » GEM???” QF HEALTH
P 0 Box 14229 . ’VEMusv CLERK .1 2.; . V
Tallahassee, Florida 32317- 4229 - ‘ . ». - '
Florida Bar # 788643
RPC/cai

PCP: Januggy 31,1997;September 25,1998
PCP Members. Ashkar, Bridges, Chemey, Slade, Scoon

3%

STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

AGENCY FOlilLlEALTH CARE

ADMINISTRATION, i

PETITIONER, ;
vs. ‘ V I 3 CASENO. 93.20573
GREGORY RICHARD WHITE, M.D., i

RESPONDENT. 3
WM.)

ADMWISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Agency for Health Care Administration, hereinafter referred
to as "Petitioner," and ﬁles this Administrative Complaint before-the Board of Medicine against
Gregory Richard White, M.D., hereinafterreferred to as "Respondeht," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the practice of medicine pursuant
to Section 20.42, Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Resppxident ivs and has 'been at all times material hereto avlicelrltsed pllysician in the State
of Florida, having been issued license number ME 0039946. Respondent's last known ad(l:ess is
Quality Care Baftow, 1750 Broadway, Bartow, FL 33830.

3. Resgondent is a General Practitionerand is not Board-certiﬁed.

4. :mm or about 1992 through or about 1993, Respondent owned and operated three

medical clinics: Quality Care Bartow, Quality Care North, and Quality Care South. During such

time, Michael Cogdill, Advanced Registered Nurse Practitioner [ARNP], was employed at Quality
Care North and Quality Care South, working under the‘supervisionofRespondent.

5. Respondent, in his role as supervising physician, and during the above referenced time
period, presigned multiple blank prescription forms for ARNP Cogdill’s use in the treatment of

patients.

6, From on or about January 12, 1988, until on or about October 27, 1993, Patient 1A., a
sixty-seven year—old female, presented to Respondent’s oﬂice approximately thirty-nine times for
treatment of various ailments. From on or about January; 14, 1991, until on or about October 27,
1993, the patient was treated approximately twelve times for the control of high blood pressure,
insulin dependent diabetes mellitus, and other related conditions. ARNP Cogdill, while suppoéedly
under the supervision of Respondent, was Patient J .At’s treating practitioner during most of the
latter twelve ofﬁce visits. Included in this treatment were some laboratory tests, x-rays of her leﬁ
ﬁngers: a referral to Slim Fast for weight loss, and a consultation with an internist, though no report
of such consultation was documented.

7‘ In or about April, 1992, the patient was treated by ARNP Cogdill for an infection of her
ﬁnger lasting several weeks. Such treatment included ARN'P Cogdill’s prescribing various
méibiotics, thrbugh theme of Respondent‘s presigned blank prescription forms, and physical
therapy. -

8. On—‘Or about May 21, i992, ARNP Cogdill diagnosed the patient as suffet-ing from
cholecystitis [inﬂammation of gall bladder], but no investigation of the condition was documented

_in the patient’s written medical record, and no reference to renal failure was mentioned in spite of

' elevated BUN [blood urea nitrogen bunion] amd'creatinumjevels.

9. On or about October 27, 1993, Patient J.A. presented to Respondent’s ofﬁce
complaining of abdominal pain. ARNP Cogdill ordered a urinalysis that subsequently revealed
excessive proten'r and large amounts of blood in the urine. But again very little follow-up was
documented in the patient’s written medical records.

10. Respondent, through a lack of supervision of ARNP Cogdill, failed to properly
diagnose Patient LA. as suffering from non-insulin dependent diabetes; insulin dependent diabetes
was diagnosed; failed to immunize Patient 1A. for tetanus, pneumoniaor inﬂuenza even though her
condition called for it; inappropriately referred Patient J .A. to Slim Fast fet‘Ftt'eight control while
ignoring the potential dangers involved; failed to assign Patient J.A. proper and timely follow-up

‘zt'eatment; and failed to recognize and properly treat Patient J.A.‘s developing chronic renal failm-e
as evidenced by rising BUN and creatinine levels and excessive protein in the urine.

11. Board of Medicine Rule 59Rv35.002, Florida Administrative Code, mandates that an
ARNP shall only perform medical acts of diagnosis, treatment, andl‘operation pursuant to a protocel

I between the ARNP and a licensed supervising physician. The degree and method of supervision,
determined by the ARNP and the supervising physician, and descriptions of the ARNP‘s duties,
shall be speciﬁcally identiﬁed in the written protocol. However, general supervision by the
supervising physician‘is tequired unless the Board’s rules set a different level of supervision'for a
particular act.

12. Baird of Medicine Rule 59R-35.002(3), Florida Administrative Code, mand‘ates that
the original protocol shall be ﬁled with Petitioner yearly, and a copy of the protocol shall be kept at

the site of practice of each party to the protocol.

13. During the investigation of this matter, no such protocol was received by Petitioner,
and no evidence was revealed indicating that ARNP'CogdilI was receiving general supervision

from Respondéntas required by the Board of Medicine.

COUNT ONE

14. Petitionerrealleges and incorporates Paragraphs one (1) through thirteen (13) as if fully
set forth herein this Count One.

15. Respondent practiced medicine below the acceptable standard of care in that
Respondent failed to regularly review the treatment provided by ARNP Cogdill whom he was
supposedly supervising, resulting in: failure to properly diagnose Patient J‘A. as suffeﬁhg from
non-insuli dependent diabetes rather than insulin dependent diabetes; failure to immunize Patient
LA. for tetanus, pneumonia or inﬂuenzaeven though her condition called for it; inappropriately
referring Patient J .A. to Slim F ast for weight control while ignoring the potential dahgers involved;
failuxe to assign Patient J.A. proper and timely follow-up treatment; and failure to recognize and
properly treat Patient J.A.’s developing chronic renal failure as evidenced by rising BUN and
creatinine levels and excgssive protein in the mine.

16. Based on‘th; foregoing, Respondent violated Section 458.331(1)(t),F10rid'a Statutes,
through gross or repeated malpractice or ﬁe failure to practihe with that level of care, skill, and
treatment which'ls recognized by a reasonahly prudent similar physician as being acceptable under

similar conditions and circumstances.

   

STATE OF FLORIDA ' ('6;
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH (3,3
BOARD OF MEDICINE
DEPARTMEMEQE HEALTH,
Petitioner,
v. AHCA CASE NO.93-20678
GREGORY R. WHITE, MD,

Respondent.

CONSENT AGREEMENT
Gregory R. White, MD. referred to as the "Respondent," and the Department of Health,
referred to as "Department,"stipu1ate and agree to the following Agreement and to the entry of a
Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as "Board," incorporatingthe Stipulated Facts and
Stipulated Disposition in this matter.

' x_nhxtive July 1, 1997, Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the practice
of medicine pursuant to Section 20.43, Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes, and
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 20.438), Florida Statutes,
the Petitioner has contracted with the Agency for Health Care Administration to provide
evexleurher complaint, investigative, and prosecutorial services required by the Division of

Medical Quality Assurance, councils, or boards, as appropriate.

 

COUNT TWO
17_ Petitioner rea11eges and incorporates Paragraphs one (1) through thirteen (13) and
ﬁfteen (15) asiffully set forth herein this Count Two.
18. Respondent, in his role as supervising physician for ARNP Cogdiu, issued multiple
presigned blank prescription forms to the ARNP for the treatment of patients.
19. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section 458.331(1)(aa), Florida Statutes,

by presigning blank prescription forms.

w

20. Petitioner realleges ahd incorporates paragraphs one (1) through thirteen (13), ﬁt’téen
(15), and eighteenﬂ 8) as if fully set forth herein this Count Three.

21. Respondent is guilty ofyiolating a rule of the board by failing to properly supervise
ARNP Cogdill in his treatment of patients pursuant to Rule 59R—35.002, Florida Administrative
Code, and by failing to plaice annually on ﬁle w1th {the board a signed copy of the written protocol
established between himself and ARNP Cogdill, pursuant to Rule 59R—35.002(Z§),. [Florida
Administrative Code. I

22. Baséd upon the foregoing, Respondentviolated Section 45 8.33 l (1)(x), Florida Statutes,
by violating any provision of this chapter,h rule of the board 61' department, or a lawful 9rder of the
board or departhtent previously entered ih a disciplinary hearing or failing to comp1y with a
lawfully issued subpoena of the department.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of Medicine enter an order

imposing one or more of the following penalties: pemanent revocation or suspension of th;

Respondent’s license, restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an administrative
ﬁne, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the Respondent on probation, the assessment of costs
related to thaimestigatioh and prosecution of this case, other than costs associated with an
attomey’s time, as provided for in Section 455.227(3), Florida Statutes, and/or any other relief

that the Board deems appropriate.

SIGNED this é day‘vorf W1

 

 
    

G. McPherson,

ChiefMedical Attorney
COUNSEL FOR AGENCY:
Larry G. McPherson, Jr.
Chief Medical Attorney
Agency for Health Care Administration _ F B L E D
PO. Box 14229 - AGENCY FOR
Tallahassee,Florida 323174229 ' HEALTH CARE ALMMSTRATION
FloridaBar #788643 ‘ DEPUTY CLERK

123(1st mxd/ba C W
PCP: January3l, 1997 ‘

DATE Zggg'z z
PCP Members: Ashkar, Bridges, Chemey

STIPULATED FACTS

1. At all times material hereto, the Respondent was a licensed physician in the State of

Florida having béén issued license number ME 0039946.

2. The Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint ﬁled by the
Department and properly served upon the Respondent with Violations of Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, and the rules enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative
Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A. ,

3, Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of fact contained in the
Administrative Complaint.

STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. ‘ The Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed physician, he is subject to
the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statute; anti ﬁejmsdiction of the Department and
the Board. I

2. The Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the Administrative Complaint, if
proven, would constitute violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the
Administrative Complaint.

3. Respondent admits that the Stipulated Disposition in this case is fair, appropriate

,,

and acceptable to Respondent.

STIPULATED DISPOSITION
1‘ v_vEUT‘URE CONDUCT. The Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters
455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated pursuant thereto, Prior to signing this

agreement, the Respondent shall read Chapters 455, 458, 893 and the Rules of the Board of

Medicine, at Section 6488, Florida Administrative Code.

2. P_Wi The Board shall impose an administrative ﬁne in the amount of $1000.00
dollars against the Respondent. The ﬁne shall be paid by the Respondent to the Board of Medicine
within ninety (90) days of its imposition by Final Order of the Board. THE RESPONDENT
ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE TIMELY PAYNLENT OF THE FINES IS HIS/HER
LEGAL OBLIGATION AND RESPONSIBILITY AND THE RESPONDENT AGREES TO
CEASE PRACTICING IF THE FINE IS NOT PAID AS AGREED TO IN THIS CONSENT
AGREEMENT, SPECIFICALLY: IF THE RESPONDENT HAS NOT RECEIVED
WRITTEN CONFIRMATION THAT THE FULL AMOUNT OF THE FINE HAS BEEN
RECEIVED BY THE BOARD OFFICE WITHIN ONE-HUNDRED EIGHTY (180) DAYS
OF THE FILING OF THIS FINAL ORDER, THE RESPONDENT AGREES TO CEASE
PRACTICE UNTIL SUCH WRITTEN CONFIRMATION IS RECEIVED BY THE
RESPONDENT FROM THE BOARD.- ‘(SEE EXHIBIT B, PARAGRAPH 1 OF THIS

CONSENT AGREEMENT FOR BOARD ADDRESS AND STANDARD TERMS). '

3. Continuing Medical Education, Respondent shall attend ﬁve (5) hours of
Continuing Medical Education in Risk Management. Respondent shall submit a written plan to the
Chairman of {ﬁéﬁém for approval prior to the completion of said continuing education hours and
course. The Board confers authority on the Chairman of the Board to approve or disapprove said
continuing education hours or course. In addition, Respondent shall submit documentation in the
form of certiﬁed copies of the receipts, vouchers, certiﬁcates, or other papers, such as physician's
recognition awards, documenting completion of this medical course Within six (6) months of the
entry of the Final Order in this matter. All such documentation shall be sent to the Board of
Medicine. regardless of whether some or anLof___§uch documentation was previouslv provided
imtwqci

during the course of anv audit er 4‘ 5m with counsel for the Dmartment. These hours shall be

 

in addition to those hours required for renewal of licensure. Unless otherwise approved by the
Board, said continuing medical education course shall consist of a formal, live lecture format.

4. Respondent shall take and obtain a score of at least 70% correct on the Laws and
Rules Examination within six months of the Final Order. The Respondent shall notify the
Department at least one week prior to the date he/she wishes to take the examinationto sehwule a”
time for the examinatio‘n'at one of the Department’s Investigative Ofﬁces. The Respondent may
take the examination as many times as needed to obtain a passing score of 70%. Contact Donna
Brown, (850) 487-9672, at the Department of Health, to schedule a time for the examination, or to

answer any queétions.

W

This Consent Agreement shall be governed to the extent applicable by the attached
"Standard Tqusﬁépplicable to Consent Agreements", Exhibit B, which is incorporated as if ﬁllly
set forth herein.

1. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject to the approval of the Board
and the Department. In this fegaid’, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs)
shall have no force and effect unless a Final Order incorporating the terms of this Agreement is
entered by the Board.

2. Respondent is required to appear before the Board at the meeting of the Board
where this Agreement is considered.

3. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this joint agreement and
subsequent Final Order incorporating same will in no way preclude additional proceedings against
Respondent for acts or omissions not speciﬁcally set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached
as Exhibit "A" herein

4. Upon the Board's adéption of this Agreement, Respondent expressly waives all
further procedural steps, and expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise
challenge or contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the Board incorporating
said Agreement.

7 5. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, the parties hereby agree‘thét each

party will bear his own attorney's fees and costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this

0

matter. Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's fees or costs from the Department in

connection with this matter.

6. ‘ 4.25 agreement is executed by the Respondent for the purpose of avoiding further
administrative action with respect to this cause‘ In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative ﬁle materials concerning Respondent prior to» or in
conjunction with consideration of the Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and consideration of this Agreement and

other documents and matters by the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or any

of its members from further participation, consideration, or resolutionofthese proceedings,

SIGNEDthis /é dayof [:26 ,1999.

G GORY R. WHITE, MD.

. q . .
Before me, ersonally appeared Lg add MD , whose identity is known to
me by E): £4 % ﬁ‘ru'u-i) (typeof §§emiﬁcation) and Who, under oath, acknowledges

that his er signature appears above.

 

Sworn to and subscribed before me this ,1999.

 

      

'me 4, 2000 ’ x
acumenmm mm: W. rm. My Commission Expires: W6 1% EL 3 U

/

APPROVEDthis 0 day of ,1999.

 

Robert G. Brooks, M.D.,
Secretary, Department of Health

 

Chic Attorney, Medical Section

Exhibit B
STANDARD TERMS APPLICABLE TO CONSENT AGREEMENTS
The_jgllowing are the standard terms applicable to all Consent Agreements.

A. PAYMENT OF FINES. Unless otherwise directed by the Consent Agreement, all
ﬁnes shall be paid by check or money order and sent to the Board address as set forth in paragraph
E, below The Board ofﬁce does not have the authority to change terms of payment of any ﬁne
imposed by the Board.

B. COMMUNITY SERVICE AND CONTINUING EDUCATION UNITS, Unless
other wise directed by the Consent Agreement, all community service requirements, continuing
education units/courses must be completed, and documentationof such completion submitted to the
Board of Medicine at the address set forth below in paragraph E, WITHIN ONE YEAR OF THE
DATE OF THE FINAL ORDER

C. ADDRESSES. The Respondent must keep current residence and practice addresses
on ﬁle with the Board. The Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (10) days of any changes
of said addresses. Furthermore, if the Respondent's license is on probation, the Respondent shall
notify the Board withinten (10) days in the event that the Respondent leaves the active practice of
medicine in F lorida

D. QQSLE Pursuant to Section 458.33 1 (2), Florida Statutes, the Respondent shall pay
all costs neceesery to comply with the terms of this Consent Agreement. Such costs ihcl’ude, but

are not limited to, the cost of preparation of Investigative Reports detailing compliance with the

