1/

STATE OF FLORIDA

BOARD O F MEDI c INE ﬁrm] DrdcrNu.QOII-98-01384Dabc E43033
FILED —_
Department of Hull):
Angus 11w, AGENCY CLERK

By: K

pnty Agency C‘I

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH,

Petitioner.

CASE NO: 93-20589
LICENSE ND: ME0042599

PETER JAY LOWE. M.D,,

Re Sp onde nt .

 

HAL E

This matter comes before the Board of Medicine pursuant to the
Beard‘s previous Order ﬁiled on November 10, 1998. In that Order
Respondent was permitted 30 days to accept or reject a
counter—stipulation proposed by the Board for the purpose of resolving
the ahave—styled matter. By letter dated October 30. 1998r and
received in the Board office by facsimile transmission on October 30,
1993, counsel for Reapondent ACCEPTED the terms set forth in the Order
filed on November 10, 1998. and its attachments. (Said Grder and its
attachments are appended hereto and are incorporated by reference
herein.h

Wherefore, Respondent shall adhere to and abide by all the terms
and conditions set forth in the Order filed on November 10, 1998.
This Final Order shall he placed in and become a permanent part of
Respondent's official record with the Board.

This Final Order becomes effective upon being filed with the

 

Consent Agkeement:

1. Respondent shall obtain a risk management review of his
@ractice by a Board—approved certified risk manager. Said review and
the report detailing compliance with said :eview must he completed
within six months from the date the final order is filed.

2. Respondent shall submit to the evaluation program offered by
the University of Florida and comply with any and all terms of said
evaluation within six months from the date the final order is filed.

This Order shall take effect upon being filed with the Clerk of
the Department of Health.

DONE AN’D ORDERED this (a day of ‘0 £4 . 1998.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

L _

JOHN W. GLOTFELTY, M.D.
CHAIM

H . TEF E
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
Ordar has been.provided by U.S. Mail to Peter Jay Lowe, M.D., 2151
45th Street, Suite 305. West Palm Beach. Florida 33407-2012; to

William Taylor, IV, Esquire, 40G North Tampa Street, Park Tower, Suite

eye, and evidence of eeliophahae macubpathy (disease of the macula} Willi scar tissue.
Reapondent diagnosed Patient VR. as suffering from Ltactional retinal detachment ofthe left eye,
impending macular hole and partiai posterior vitreous detachment with corrected vision of
20f200 in the left eye and 20/40 in the right eye.

5. On or about July 23, 1992, Resyoudem performed a pars plana (ciliary ring)
Vitrectomy and membrane peeling on Patient V.R.’s left eye. The procedure was perfumed
without apparent complications.

6. On or about July 24, 1992, Patient V.R. presented to Re5pondent for evaluationF
Re3pondent noted Patient V335 vision to be 20f200 in the left eye with a pressure of 31 and
postoperative inﬂammation. Respondent prescribed Betagan BID {a topical peessure lowering
medication).

7. On or about July 27, 1992, Patient V.R. returned to Respondent for evaluation.
Respondent noted that Patient YR continued to complain of paJ'Ji‘on the left side of her face.
Respondent also noted deereased vision, a pressure of 4B, and a hypopyon (a collection of pus in
the anterior chamber of the eye) in the left eye. Respondent placed Pahent V.R. on Ciloxan (an
antibiotic).

8. On or about July 28, 1992, Patient V.R. presented to Respondent‘l ReSpondent
noted continued decrease in her vision to the level of light perception. Respondent noted
possible endophthalmiﬁs (inﬂammation of the internal tissue of the eyeball) and initiated owl
Keﬂex.

9. On or about September 1, I992, Respondent referred Patient YR to the Bascom

?almee Eye Institute. The physician diagnosed endophthalmitis, and elevated high pressure in

Patient V.R"s right eye requiﬁng laser surgery. The physician determined that the left eye was

inoperable. Patient V.R.‘subsequently develolaed sympathetic ophthaJIIﬁa (inﬂammation of the
eye), and was diagnosed as being legally blind and severally visuallyimpaired'.

10. Raspondent failed to appropriately treat Patient V.R.’s post-operative
inﬂammation in a timely manner. A similar physician would have developed differential
diagnoses which inciude surgical trauma, wound incarceration of the vitreous, red blood cells in

the vitreous, and endophthalmjtis.

1 l. ReSpondent failed to appropriately diagnose Patient V.R.’s endophthalmitis. The

standard 0f care requires that if a patient‘s vision is better than light perception, as was Patieijt'

V.R.’s condition on or about Jul 27, 1992, and with the presence of a hypo you, a. vitreous ta ,
Y P P

anterior chamber tap for cultures, and a gram staining ofthe material are indicated.

12. ReSpondent failed to appropriately treat Patient V.R.‘s endophthalmitis in that he
provided oral antibiotics rather than iutravitreal antibiotics.

13. Respondent failed to maintain appropriate medical records in that his records 'are
illegible and contain incomplete descriptions of medical ﬁndings.

COUNT ONE

14. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paraglaphs one {1) through thirteen (13), as
if fully set forth herein this Count One ‘

15. Respondent is guilty of failing to practice medicine within the acceptable level of
care by failing to apptopﬁately and timely diagnose Patient V.R.’s condition:

16. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section 453.331(1)(t), Floﬁda

Statutes, failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill, and treatment which is

COUNSEL FOR AGENCY:

Larry G McPherson, Jr
Chichedical Attorney
Agency for Health Care Adminisn'ation

' P O. Box 14229

Tallahassee, Florida 32317-4229
Florida Bar # 738643

RPCtho

PCP: May 23, 1997

PCP Members: Slade, Murray

Clerk of the Department of Health.

41
DONE AND ORDERED this LI! day of D664" bcw‘ , 1993,

BOARD OF MEDICINE

 

CHAIRMAN

E - q

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Final Order has been provided by U.S. Mail to Peter Jay
Lowe. M.D., 2151 45th Street, Suite 305, West Palm Beach, Florida
33407-2012; to William Taylor, IV, Esquire, 400 North Tampa Street,
Park Tower, Suite 2300, Tampa, Florida 33601: and by interoffice
delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr.. Chief Attorney, Agency for Health
Care Administration, 2727 Mahan Drive, Tallahassee, Florida 32308—
SQOB, on or before 5:00 p.m., this day of

1598.

STATE OF FLORJDA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH,

Petitioner,

AHCA CASE NO. 93-20589

PETER JAY LOWE, M.D.,

Respondent.

CONSENT AGREEBIENT I‘ h

Peter Jay Lowe, MD, referred to as the "Respondent," and the. Dapartment of leth, referred

to as 'Depanment,” stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and to the entry ofa Final Order of
the Board of Medicine, re'fmed to as IrBayard," moorporaﬁng the Stipulated Facts 5nd Stipulated

Disposition in this matter.

W

1. At all ﬁmw material hereto, Respondent was a licensed physician if: the: State ofFIorida
having been issued license number ME. 0042599. «.

2. Respondent was charged by an Adnﬁnistraﬁve Complaint ﬁled by the Department and

properly served upon Respondent with Violations of Chapter 453.331(1)(t)(m), Florida Statutm, and

the rules enacted pursuanﬁhere'go. A true and correct copy ofthe Adm'mistrative Complaint is attached

hereto as Exhibit A '
3. Respondent admits the allegations of fact contained in the Administrative Complaint

for purposes efthese proceedings only.

S'I'JPIEATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as-a licensee physician, he is subject to the
provisions of Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Depaﬁment and the
Board. ..

2‘ Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the Adnﬁnisﬂ‘ative Complaint] ifproﬂien,
would constitute violations of Chapter 453, Florida Statutes, as. alleged in the Adnﬁrﬁstmtlve
Complaint.

3. ReSpcmdent admits that the Stipulated Disposition in this case is fair, appropriate and

acceptable :0 Respondent.
W

11 FUTURE CONDUCT, Respondent shall not in the ﬁlture violate Chapters 455, 458
and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgaled pursuant Thereto. Prior to signing this agreement,
Respondent read Chapters 455, 458, and 893, Florida Statutes, and the Rules of the Board of

Medicine, at SectiOn 6413, Florida Admirﬁstralive Code.

2. w The Boyd shall impose an adnﬁxﬁstmtive ﬁne in the amount of $2,000 (two
thousand dollars) against-the Respondent. The ﬁne shall be paid by the Respondant to the Board of
Medicine Within {3&1 ninety days of its imposition by Final Order of the Board. THE
RESPONDENT ACfﬂ‘IOWLE-DGES THAT THE 'IIMELY PAMNT OF THE FINE IS
131st LEGAL OBIJGATION AND RESPONSIBILITY AND THE RESPONDENT
AGREES TO CEASE PRACTICING IF THE PINE IS NOT PAID AS AGREED TO N THIS
CONSENT AGREEMENT, SPECIFICALLY: IF THE . RESPONDENT HAS NOT
RECEIVED ‘WRITTEN CONFEMATION THAT THE, FULL AMOUNT OF THE FINE
HAS BEEN RECMD BY THE BOARD OFFICE WITHIN (90) NMETY DAYS OF THE
FILING OF THIS FINAL ORDER, THE RESPONDENT AGREES TO CEASE PRACITCE
UNTIL SUCH WRIITEN CONFIRMATION IS RECEIVED BY THE RESPONDENT
FROM THE BOARD. (SEE EXHIBIT B, PARAGRAPH . 1 OF- THIS CONSENT
AGREEMENT FOR BOARD ADDRESS AND STANDARD TERMS)-

3. COMMENG hiEDIchgﬁDLICATION. Wthin 0}“: year oft‘ne ﬁling ofthc Final
Order incorporating the terms of this agreement, Respondent shall attend 20 (twenty) extra hours of
Category I Continuing Medical Education. which shall include 10 (ten ) hours in diagnosis and

traitment of eye infections and the remainder in risk management. Respondent shall submit a wriﬂen

plgn to the Chairman of the Probationer's Committae for approval prior to thc Dompletion of said '

continuing education hours. The Board confers authority on the: Chairman of tHc- Probationer's
Committee t0 approve or disapprove said continuing education hours. In addition, Respondent shall

mbnﬁt documentation in'the form of oerﬁﬁed copies of the receipts, vouchers. certiﬁcateS, or cthér

:th

 

paperi, such as physician's recognition awards, documenting completion of these medical
education courses within one (1:) year of the entry of the Final Order in this matte: &
such documentation shall be sent to the Board of Medicinghregardleis ofwhelher some
or arw ofsuch documentatien wamviousﬁy Divided during the course of any audit gr
discussien with counsel for the Department. These hours shall be in addition to those
hours required for renewal of Iicensure. Unless othenvise approved by the Board, said
continuing medical education courses shall consist of a farmal, live lecture format.

4. REQORDS QOIJEEE. Respondent shall complete the course, “Quality
Medical Record Keeping for Health Care Professionals," sponsored by the Florida
Medical Aseociation within one (1} yea: of the entry of the Final Order in this matter.

5. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject to the eepmval uf' .--
the Board and the Department, In this regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the
foregoing paxagraphs} shalt have nu force and effect uniess a Final Order incarporarjng
the terms of this Agreement is entered by the Board.

6. Respondent shail appear before the Board at the meeting of the Board
where this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in conjunction with the consideration
of this Agreement by the Board, shall respond to questions under oath from the Board,

”Board Staﬂ' ur Department Staff. Respondent shall be prepared to explain the

circumstances involveii in this matter and what measures have been taken to prevent a

IECUITEDGE. ~.

7. Should this Agreement be rejected, :10 siatement made in furtherance of this
Agreement by the Respondent may be used as direct evidence against the Respondent in any
proceeding; however, Such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment purposes.

8, Respondent and the Department ﬁJLIy understami that this joint Agreement and

subsequent Final Order incorporating same will in no way preclude additional proceedmgs by the.

Board audior the Department against the Respondent for acts or omissions not speciﬁcally set forth in
the Admilﬁstrative'Complaim attached 35 Exhibit "A” herein.-

9. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent expressly waives all ﬁmher
procedural steps, and expressly waives ail rights to seekjudicial review ofor to otherwise challengeﬁ'r
contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order cfthe Board incorporating said Agreemerit _

10. Upon the Board's adoption ofthis Agreement, the parties hereby agree that each party
will hear his own attornefs fees and costs resulting ﬁ‘om prosewtion or defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney’s fees or costs from the Department in connection
with this matter' i

11. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the purpose of avoiding ﬁmher
adnﬁrﬁstrative action with reSpee-t to this cause, In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all iiivestigatiue ﬁle maten'als coneenﬁng Respondent prior to or in conjunction
with consideration of the Agreement. Furthermore, should thisjoint Agreement not he accepted by the

Board, it is agreed that presentation to and consideration of this Agreement and other documents and

e.- r--

mumbymeaoud MmWyormmnymwdnBouﬁormynfhanﬁnm '

mm wﬁd-paﬁon. unnﬁdumlon or resolution oﬂhws mm
mm {£1253 day or 53-95- 1993

Eiu‘Bm'm'Pm f9 4 W muimhmmm
WWL' Ofdmkﬁcaion)méwho.undamih,ubnmad5r
m .

lime Ibow.
swmtamammw befomma mi. 50“" dlyof 1998.

 

- NOTARX _ up

My Cmmiuion Erpuu' : 8'4?£'9‘?
APPROVE) Ihié lily n _ 1998a

 

Dmmxmmv
Wmm‘m
mama!
Nu 06491512
UH—Im— uaI-u:

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION

AGENCY FOR HEALTH )
- CARE ADMNTSTRATION, 3
)
PETITION'ER, )
)

v. ) CASE NO. 93-20539

)
PETER JAY LOWE, M.D., )
J
RESPONDENT. )
_)

 

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT '

 

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Agency for Health Care Adminjétration, hereinafter
referred to as “Petitioner," and ﬁles this Administrative Complaint before the Board ofMedjcine
against Peter Jay Lowe, M.D., heremaﬁer refeneﬁ to as “Resmndcn't-f’ and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the practice ofmedicine pursuant
to Section 20.42, Floﬁda Statutes; Chapter 455, Fiérida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes. I

2. Respondent is and has been at all times-material hereto a-licenscd pléysician in the
state of Florida, having been issued license number ME 0042599. Respondent’s last how:
address is 2151 45111 Street, #305, West Palm Beach, Florida 33407-2012.

3. Respondent is board certiﬁed in Ophthalmologist.

4. 011- or about July 16, 1992, Patient V.R., a Sixty-Om: (61) yea: old female, presented to

Respondent for evaluation. Patient V.R. presented with a history of severe visual loss in her left

 

