STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE
Final Ordcr No. W
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND nx,n?§§%%rzx
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,

Dch of Business and Professional Regumion
Sarah \Vachman, Agency Clerk

Petitioner
I By:% m
V. DBPR CASE NUMBERS: 93—09775
93—21762
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0016652

HERMAN M. ZEIDMAN, M.D.,

Respondent .

/

FINAL ORDER

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on April 8, 1994, in lit,
Lauderdale, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreemex‘xlt
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in
the above—styled case. Upon consideration 2 of the Consent
Agreement; the documents submitted in support thereof, the
arguments of“ the parties, and being otherwise advised in the
premises, ‘

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall

adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the

Consent Agreement.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of
day

the Department .

DONE AND ORDERED this 1994.

 

BOARD OF MEDICINE «

_EDWARD A. DAUER, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

 

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and Correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Herman M. Zeidmén,
M.D., 3100 Estates Drive, Pompano Beach, Florida 33069 and hy
interoffiée delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical
Attorney, Department of Business and Professional Regulation,

Northwoed Centre, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahaisee, Florida

32 99—0792, at or before 5:00 P.M., this IS} day of
, 1994.
”W .jg,4,‘~-,.~
( a _>w’—%q‘

MARM M. HARRIS, Ph.D.
Executive Director

 

an approved monitor/supervisor. Temporary approval shall only
remain in effect until the next meeting of the Probation Committee.
2. FORMAL APPROVAL.

a. Respondent shall have the
monitor/supervisor with him at his first probation appearance
before the Probation Committee. Prior to consideration of the
monitor/supervisor by the Committee, the Respondent shall provide
to the monitor/supervisor a copy of the Administrative Complaint
and Final Order in this case. Respondent shall submit a current
curriculum vitae and a description of current practice from the
proposed monitor/supervisor to the Board office no later than
fourteen days before the Respondent’s first scheduled probatipn
appearance. '
A b. Respondent’s monitor/supervisor shall
also appear before the Probation Committee at such other times as
directed by the Committee. It shall be Respondent’s responsibility
to ensure the appearance of his monitor/supervisor as directed. If
the approved monitor fails to appear as requested or directed by
the Probation Committee, the Respondent shall immediately cease
practicing medicine until such time as the approved monitor or
alternate monitor appears before the Probation Committee.

3. CHANGE IN MONITOR{SUPERVISOR. In the
event that Respondent's monitor/supervisor is unable or unwilling
to fulfill his responsibilities as a. mohitor/supervisor as

described above, then the Respondent shall immediately advise the

Board of this fact. Respondent shall immediately submit to the

B—3

Chairman of the Beard’s Probation Committee, the name of a
temporary monitor/supervisor for consideration. Respondent shall
not practice pending approval of this temporary monitor/supervisor
by the Chairman of the Probation Committee. Furthermore,
Respondent shall make arrangements with his temporary
monitor/supervisor to appear before the Probation Committee at its
next regularly scheduled meeting for Consideration of the
monitor/supervisor by the Committee. Respondent shall only
practice under the auspices of the temporary monitor/supervisor
(approved by the Chairman) until the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Probation Committee whereat the issue of the
Committee’s approval of the Respondent’s new monitor/supervispr
shall be addressed. I '13
C. CONTINUITY OF PRACTICE
1. TOLLING PROVISIONS. In the event the
Respondent leaves the State of Florida for a period of thirty days
or more or otherwise does not engage in the active practice of
medicine in Ithe State of Florida, then certain provisions of
Respondent’s probation kand only those provisions of the probation)
shall be tolled as enumerated below and shall remain in_a tolled
status until Respondent returns to active practice in the State of
Florida.
a. The time period of probation shall be

tolled,

b. The provisions regarding supervision,

whether direct or indirect, by another physician and required

B-4

reports from the monitor/supervisor shall be tolled.

c. The provisions regarding preparation
of investigative reports detailing Compliance with this Stipulation
shall be tolled.

d. The provisions regarding reports by
the Respondent shall be tolled.

e. The provisions regarding appearances
before the Probationer’s Committee shall be tolled.

2. ADDRESSES; Respondent must keep current
residence and business addresses on file with the Board.
Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (10) days of any
changes of said addresses. Furthermore, Respondent shall notiﬁy
the Board within ten (10) days in the event that Respondent leawes
the active practice of medicine in Florida.

3. ACTIVE PRACTICE. In_ the event that
Respondent leaves the active practice of medicihe for a period of
one year or more, the Probation Committee may require Respondent to
appear before the Probation Committee and demonstrate his ability
to practice medicine with skill and safety to patients prior to
resuming the practice of medicine in this State.

D. COSTS. Respondent shall pay all costs
necessary to comply with the terms of this Consent Agreement. Such
costs include, but are not limited to, the costs of preparation of
Investigative Reports detailing compliance with the terms of the

Consent Agreement and the Board’s administrative costs directly

t
associated with Respondent’s probation.

B—S

E. BOARD ADDRESS. Unless otherwise directed by

the Board Office, all reports, correspondence and inquiries shall

be sent to: Board of Medicine, 1940 North Monroe Street,
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, Attn: Final Order Compliance
Officer.
A
3-6

, STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,
PETITIONER,
VS. CASE NO. 93—09775
HERMAN M. ZEIDMAN, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
E/
ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of business and
Professional Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioneq,"
and files this Administrative Complaint before the Board Léf
Medicine egainst Herman M. Zeidman, M.D. hereinafter referred to es
"Respondest," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency chargea with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.165, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes. '

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Floride, having been issued
license number ME 0016652. Respondent’s last known address is 1280
South Powerline Road, Pompano Beach, Florida 33069.

3. On or about May 19, 1993, Patient L.E., an undercover
police éetebtive for the Pompano Beach Poiice Department, presented

to Respoﬁdent requesting weight loss treatment. Respondent

performed a ﬁedical history and a physical exam.

4. During the examination, Respondent questioned Patient
L.E. extensively regarding her sexual activities, fondled her legs
and shoulders, held her hand, moved his hand toward her breast and
kissed her on the cheek.

5. Respondent prescribed for Patient L.E., Paxil, which he
stated would correct her chemical imbalance and weight problem.

6. Paxil is a legend drug as defined by Section 465.003(7),
Florida statutes.

7. On or about May 24, 1993, Patient L.E. presented to
Respondent for a second appointment. Respondent questioned Patient
L.E. repeatedly about her sexual experiences and attempted to
hypnotize her. Respondent placed his head in Patient L.E.’s Lap
and stroked her leg, shoulders and neck. Respondent placed Patiehh
L.E.’s haad on his penis and kissed her on the cheek.

8. Respondent dispensed to Patient L.E. in a small white
envelope, nine unlabeled pills which he stated were control for
mood swings. The pills dispensed were not properly labelled for
usage and Respondent did not instruct Patient L.E. on the use of
this drug. The pills were later identified as Imipramine 10 mg.

9. Imipramine is a legend drug as defined by Section
465.003(7), Florida Statutes.

10. On or about June 4, 1993, Patient L.E. presented to
Respondent with complaints of sleeplessness. Respondent dispensed
to Patient L.E. in a white envelope, seven greenish tablets which

he stated were to help her sleep. The pills were later identified

as a non—dontrolled sleeping medication. In addition, Respondent

,q

dispensed in a white envelope, seven yellow pills which he stated
were for weight loss. The pills were later identified as
containing Phentermine.

11. Phentermine is defined as a legend drug by Section
465.003(7), Florida Statutes, and contains Phentermine
Hydrochloride, a Schedule IV controlled substance listed in Chapter
893, Florida statutes. Phentermine is indicated in the management
of exogenous obesity as a short term adjunct (a few weeks) in a
regimen of weight reductions based on caloric restriction.
Phentermine Hydrochloride is related chemically and
pharmacologically to the amphetamines. Amphetamines and other
related stimulant drugs have been extensively abused, and ?he
possibility of abuse of Phentermine Hydrochloride should be kept §n
mind whenhevaluating the desirability of including this drug as'a
part of a weight reduction program. A Schedule IV substance has a
potential for abuse which may lead to physicai or psychological
dependence.

12. During the June 4, 1993 office visit, Respondent
proceeded to take Patient L.E.’s hand and attempted to have her
stroke his leg and moved her hand towards his penis. Respondent
fondled Patient L.E.’s leg and breast and kissed her hand.
Respondent unbuttoned Patient L.E.’s blouse, pulled out her breast
and attempted to kiss her breast. Patient L.E. protested and
pushed Respondent away. Respondent again tried to pull Patient
L.E.’s {byeast out of her shirt. Patient L.E. again pushed

RespondenE away.

13. Pursuant “to Section 465.0276, Florida Statutes, a
physician must be licensed to dispense drugs; must be registered as
a dispensing practitioner; must comply with and be subject to all
laws and rules applicable to pharmacists and pharmacies including,
but not limited to Chapter 465, Chapter 499 and Chapter 893 and all
federal laws and federal regulations; must give the patient a
written prescription and advise the patient on its usage. It is
the authority and responsibility of the Department to enforce rules
and regulations stated herein.

14. Pursuant to 458.329( Florida Statutes, sexual misconduct
in the practice of medicine is defined as follows: The physician—
patient relationship is founded on mutual trust. Sexual miscondqet
in the practice of medicine means violation of the physicia'lhL
patient gelationship through which the physician uses said
relationship to induce or attempt to induce the patient to engage,
or to engage or attempt to engage the patient, in sexual activity
outside the scope of the practice or the scope of generally
accepted exemination or treatment of the patient. Sexual
misconduct in the practice of medicine is prohibited.

QQBEE_QQE

15. Petitioner realleges and incorporates Paragraphs one (1)
through fourteen (14) as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

16. Respondent is guilty of grounds for disciplinary action;
action by the board and department: failing to perform any
statutoiy or legal obligation placed upqn a licensed physician, in

that Resﬁondent dispensed legend drugs including controlled

substances to Patient L.E. without proper licensure or
registration, without proper instructions for their use, without
proper labelling, and without writing the proper prescriptions in
Violation of Section 465.0276, Florida Statues.

17. Based on the foregoing Respondent violated 458.331(1)(g),
Florida Statutes, and is guilty of failing to perform any statutory
or legal obligation placed upon a licensed physician.

Count Two

18. Petitioner realleges and incorporates Paragraphs one (1)
through fourteen (14) and sixteen (16) as if fully set forth herein
this Count Two.

19. Respondent is guilty of violating any provision of th;s
chapter, a rule of the board or department, or a lawful order Ef
the boardx or department previously entered in a disciplinary
hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully issued subpoena of the
Department in that Respondent participated in sexual misconduct
with Patient L.E. in violation of Section 458.329, Florida
Statutes.

20. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(x), Florida Statutes, and is guilty of Violating any
provision of this chapter, a rule of the board or department, or a
lewful order of the board or department previously entered in a
disciplinary hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully issued

subpoena of the department.

»’

QQEEE_ILEQE

21. Petitioner realleges and incorporates Paragraphs one (1)
through fourteen (14), sixteen (16) and nineteen (19) as if fully
set forth herein this Count Three.

22. Respondent is guilty of exercising influence within a
patient—physician relationship for purposes of engaging a patient
in sexual activity, in that on three different occasions Respondent
inappropriately fondled Patient L.E.’s shoulders, legs and
inappropriately discussed Patient L.E.’s sexual experiences.
Respondent also fondled Patient L.E.’s breast sud placed Patient
L.E.’s hand on his penis.

23. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Sectign
458.331(1)(j), Florida Statutes, and is guilty of exercisihg
influence ﬁdthin a patient—physician relationship for purposes 6f
engaging a patient in sexual activity.

Count Four

24. Petitioner realleges and incorporates Paragraphs one (1)
through fourteen (14), sixteen (16), nineteen (19) and twenty—two
(22) as if fully set fsrth herein this Count Four.

25. Respondent is guilty of groSs or rspeated malprsctice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
ahd treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances, in that Respondent failed to appropriately test,
éxamine and diagnose Patient L.E. before prescribing various legend

drugs.

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION, ,3

Petitioner,
BPR CASE NOS. 93—09775 8
93-21762
HERMAN M. ZEIDEAN, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

CONSENT AGREEMENT

 

HERMAN M. ZEIDMAN, M.D., referred to as the "Respondent," and
the Department of Business and Professional Regulation, referred to
as "Department," stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and
to the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to
as "Board," incorporating the stipulated Facts and stipulated
Disposition_in this matter.

STIPULATED FACTS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed
physician in the State of Florida having been issued license number
ME 0016652.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaints
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with

violations of Chaptef 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules enacted

pursuantithereto. True and correct cobies of the Administrative

C43

ComplaintS'are attached hereto as Exhtbit A.

26. Based on .the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(l)(t), Florida Statutes, and is guilty of gross or repeated
malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that level of
care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably
prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstances.

m

27. Petitioner realleges and incorporates Paragraphs one (1)
through fourteen (14), sixteen (16), nineteen (19), twenty—two
(22), and twenty-five (25), as is fully set forth herein this Count
Five.

28. Respondent is guilty of prescribing, dispensing,
administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing a legend drug;
including sny controlled substance, other than in the course of the
physician’s professional practice, in that Respondent
inappropriately prescribed and dispensed legend drugs, including
controlled substances, to Patient L.E.

29. Based on the foregoing, Respondent Qiolated
458.33i(1)(q), Florida Statutes, and is guilty of prescribing,
dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing a legend
drug, including any controlled substance, other than in the course
of the physician’s professional practice.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or mere of the following

penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s license,

restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an

administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board
deems appropriate.

SIGNED this J» day Of , , 1993.

G tuart, Secretary

     
   

  

 

 

McPherson, r.
dical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Chief Medical Attorney

Department of Business and Professional Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750

Florida Bar #788643 _ 1
LGM/sdb

PCP: August 30, 1993
Murray and Slade F l L E D
A 0953mm of Business and Professional Regulation

DEPUTY ,CLERK

“@on WW“
DATE El — \ 5313

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,
PETITIONER,
vs. CASE NO. 93-21762
HERMAN M. ZEIDMAN, M.D.,

RESPONDENT.
_________________________/
ADHINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT
COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Business and

Professional Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitionéx,"
and files this Administrative Complaint before the Board '0f
Medicine against Herman M. Zeidman, M.D., hereinafter referred to
as "Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the
practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.165, Florida statutes;
Chapter 455, Florida statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times materiai hereto a
licensed physician in the state of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0016652. Respondent's last known address is 3100
Estates Drive, Pompano Beach, Florida 33069.

3. On or about September 21, 1993, Respondent was adjudicated
guilty on one (1) count of battery in the Circuit Court for Broward

County. :Respondent was charged with cbmmitting a battery upon a

female patient by intentionally touching or striking her on June 4,

000025

1993. Respondent was sentenced to twelve (12) months probation and
was ordered to receivie counseling.

4. Respondent is guilty of being convicted or found guilty
of, or entering a plea of nolo contendere to, regardless of
adjudication, a crime in any jurisdiction which directly relates to
the practice of medicine or to the ability to practice medicine, in
that Respondent was adjudicated guilty on one (1) count of battery.

5. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(c), Florida Statutes, and is guilty of being convicted
or found guilty of, or entering a plea of nolo contendere to,
regardless of adjudication, a crime in any jurisdiction whieh

directly relates to the practice of medicine or to the abilityito

‘

v

practice medicine.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: permanent revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s
license, restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, éssuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any othergrelief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this 072 day of

FILED

Department of Business and Professional Regulation
‘; DEPUTY CLERK

        

r

'herson, Jr.
.cal Attorney

000026

 

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Chief Medical Attorney
Department of Business and Professional Regulation

1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750
Florida Bar #788643

RPc/mry

PCP: January 21, 1994

Murray and Varn

000027

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of

fact contained in the Administrative Complaints.
STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458,
Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department and the
Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaints, if proven, would constitute violations
of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, ae alleged in the Administrative
Complaints.

STIPULATED DISPOSITION

1. FUTURE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the futﬁte
violate Chapters 455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rutes
promulgated pursuant thereto. Prior to signing this agreement, the
Respondent has read Chapters 455, 458 and 893 and the Rules of the
Board of Medicine, at Section 61F6—18, et. seq., Florida
Administrative Code.

2. FINE. The Beard shall impose an administrative fine in
the amount of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) against the
Respondent. The fine shall be paid by the Respondent to the Board
of Medicine within six (6) months of its imposition by Final Order
of the Board.

3. REPRIMAND. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand from

the Boafq of Medicine.

r

4. SUSPENSION. Effective on the date of the filing of the
Final Order incorporating the terms if this Agreement, Respondent’s
license to practice medicine shall be suspended for a period of at
least two (2) years. Eighteen (18) months of this suspension may
he stayed conditioned upon Respondent’s compliance with all other
provisions of this Consent Agreement. Prior to the reinstatement
of Respondent’s license to practice medicine, Respondent shall
demonstrate to the Board’s satisfaction that he can practice
medicine with reasonable skill anstafety to patients. This
demonstration shall include, but not be limited to, completion of
a psychiatric evaluation by a qualified physician who shall be
approved by the Physician Recovery Network prior to sg_ch
evaluation. The findings and recommendations of the evaluatiiqlh
must state the Respondent can presently practice medicine with
reasonable skill and safety to patients. This evaluation must take
place not greater than ninety (90) days prior to the Board meeting
at which this Agreement is considered.

5. PROBATION. Upon reinstatement of Respondent’s license,
Respondent shall appeal: before the Board. The Board may impose a
probationary period of up to five (5) 'Years with terms and
conditions to be set at that time.

6. CRIMINAL PROBATION. Respondent shall comply with all
conditions imposed as a result of his criminal conviction in Case
Number ‘93012919mm10, Circuit Court, Broward County.

7. “'_STANDARD PROVISIONS. Respondent’s probation shall be

governed by' the attached ”Standard Terms Applicable to Consent

Agreements", Exhibit B, which is incorporated as if fully set forth

herein.

8. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject
to the approval of the Board and the Department. In this regard,
the foregbing paragraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs) shall
have no force and effect unless a Final Order incorporating the
terms of this Agreement is entered by the Board.

9. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting of
the Board where this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in
conjunction with the consideration of this Agreement by the Board,
shall respond to questions under oath from the Board, Board Staff
or Department Staff. The Respondent shall be prepared to explain
the circuwstances involved in this matter and what measures haye
been taken to prevent a recurrence.

10. should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by the Respondent may be used as
direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding; however,
such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment
purposes.

11. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this
joint Agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will
in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board and/or the
Department against the Respondent for. acts or omissions not
specifiéally set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as

Exhibit A herein.

12. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreement, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Agreement.

13. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will bear his own attorney’s fees and
costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's fees or costs
from the Department in connection with this matter.

14. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respectito
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review an? examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the
Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by
the Board shall not untairly or illegally prejudice the Board or
any of its members from furthet participation, consideration or

resolution of these proceedings.

p“,

, »,e
SIGNED Chis q day of JK1{LkW , 1994.

,. , g . C.
/
%L;g.4:g. Mfcéhj 3)
M.D.

‘ L M,
erman M. Zelgma ,
L

 

 

Before me, personally appeared +4€nﬁﬁafﬁ NW‘Zkﬂ(iﬂ\dr\,/”'D'
whose identity is known to me by ?hﬁ&o.bﬂonty[pnggzzjﬂﬁau—é-gtxpe of
identification) and who, under oath, acknowledges that'qgfyher
signature appears above.

Sworn ﬁg and subscribed before me this 4' day of

’ ’ \Dnﬁaﬂnlﬁﬂ

.; , 1994.
I 3‘5
NOTARW PUBLEC / 5 MCZZGﬁ—

  
    
      

 

 
 

mssiﬁa‘zzorr
MY COMMESIOH 9 CC 3125363

DMRHH
m“ M Magmbws‘ 1m

APPROVED this If) day of ‘szgéLéC/é: , 1994.
___77_________________

My Commis§éon Expires:

1

George Stuart
Secreta

    
 
  

   

G. McPherson, Jr.
Chief Attorney

Medical Section

Exhibit B
STANDARD TERMS APPLICABLE TO CONSENT AGREEMENTS
Provisions governing physicians ordered to work under
supervision of monitoring or supervising physician.
I. DEFINITIONS:

A. INDIRECT SUPERVISION is supervision by a
monitoring physician (monitor) whose responsibilities are set by
the Board. Indirect supervision does not require that the monitor
practice on the same premises as the Respondent; however, the
monitor shall practice within a reasonable geographic proximity to
hespondent, which shall be within 20 miles unless otherwise
provided by the Board, and shall be readily available ﬁor
consultation. The monitor shall be Board—certified in {he
Respondent’s specialty area, unless otherwise provided by the
Board.

B. DIRECT SUPERVISION is shpervision by a
supervising physician (supervisor) whose responsibilities are set
by the Board;7 Direct supervision requires that the supervisor and
Respondent work in the same office. The supervising physician
shall be Board-certified in the Respondent’s specialty area, unless
otherwise provided by the Board. 1

C. PROBATION COMMITTEE or "committee" are members
of the Board of Medicine designated by the Chairman of the Board to

serve as the Probation Committee.

»

II. STANDARD TERMS.
A. EMBED SUPERVISION.

1. The Respondent shall not practice medicine
without an approved monitor/supervisor, as specified by the Consent
Agreement, unless otherwise ordered by the Board.

2. The monitor/supervisor must be a licensee
under Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, in good standing and without
restriction or limitation on his license. In addition, the Board
or Committee may reject any propesed monitor/supervisor on the
basis that he has previously been subject to any disciplinary
action against his medical license in this or any other
jurisdiction, is Currently under investigation, or is the subject
of a pending disciplinary action. The monitor/supervisor must be
actively engaged in the same or similar specialty area unless
otherwise provided by the Board or Committee, The Board or
Committee may also reject any proposed monitot/sepervisor for good
cause shown“-

B. MECHANISM FOR APPROVAL OF MONITOR/SUPERVISOR:

1.. TEMPORARY APPROVAL. The Board Confers
authority on the Chairman of the Board's Probation Committee to
temporarily approve Respondent’s monitor/supervisor. To obtain
this temporary approval, Respondent shall submit to the Chairman of
the Probation Committee the name and curriculum vitae of the
proposed Imonitor/supervisor at the time ithis agreement is

considered by the Board. Once a Final Order adopting this

Agreementkis filed, Respondent shall not practice medicine without

8-2

