STATE OF FLORIDA '“ .n
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTﬁﬁT;ONAh

  

BOARD OF MEDICINE \ Lhu -’ fﬂ 1.L,
Final Order No. AHCAVMGR Dam 12.1: ”3%
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE FRED
ADMINISTRATION , BOARD OF Agcncy for Hcallh Cure Adminislmlion
MEDICINE, Acmmvcmmx

.5. inur. Agcncy Clerk
‘ ‘ w=ﬂ&;z4 5 £222;_____
Petltloner,

Dupuly Agency Clerk

V. CASE NUMBER: 93-13516
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0027678

STEVEN A. FIELD, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section l20.57(3), Florida Statutes, on December 2, 1994 in
Orlando, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in
the above—styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent
Agreement, the documents submitted in support thereof, the
arguments of the parties, and being otherwise advised in the
premises, the Board rejected the Consent Agreement proposed and
offered an amendment at the hearing, which amendment was accepted
without objection by the parties.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein with the following amendments:

1. The administrative fine in Paragraph 2. of the stipulated
Disposition shall be increased to $3,000 instead of $2,500.

2. Upon the filing of the final Order in this cause, the

Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of Florida
shall be placed on probation for a period of two years with the
following terms and conditions:

1. Respondent shall comply with all state and federal
statutes, rules, and regulations pertaining to the practice of
medicine, including Chapters 455, 458, 893, Florida Statutes, and
Rule Chapter 61F6, Florida Administrative Code.

2. Respondent shall appear before the Board’s
Probationer’s Committee at the first meeting after said probation
commences, at the last meeting of the Board’s Probationer’s
Committee preceding termination of probation, semiannually, and at
such other times as requested by the Board's Probationer’s
Committee. Respondent shall be noticed by Board staff of the date,
time and place of the meeting whereat Respondent’s appearance is
required. Failure of the Respondent to appear as requested or
directed shall be considered a Violation of the terms of the Final
Order entered in this matter, and shall subject the Respondent to
disciplinary action.

3. In the event the Respondent leaves the State of
Florida for a period of thirty days or more or otherwise does not
engage in the active practice Of medicine in the State Of Florida,
then certain provisions of Respondent's probation (and only those
provisions of said probation) shall be tolled as enumerated below
and shall remain in a tolled status until Respondent returns to
active practice in the State Of Florida. Respondent must keep

current residence and business addresses on file with the Board.

C. After the next meeting of the Board's Probationer's
Committee occurs Respondent shall only practice under the
supervision of the supervisor or monitor. If for any reason the
approved supervisor or monitor is unwilling or unable to serve,
Respondent shall immediately notify the Executive Director of the
Board and shall cease gractice until a temporary supervisor/monitor
is approved. The Chairman of the Board’s Probationer’s Committee
may approve a temporary supervisor or monitor who may serve in that
capacity until the next meeting of the Board’s Probationer’s
Committee at which time the Board’s Probationer’s Committee shall
accept or reject a new proposed supervisor or monitor. If the new
proposed supervisor/monitor is rejected, Respondent shall cease
practice until a new supervisor or monitor is temporarily approved
by the Chairman of the Board’s Probationer’s Committee.
Furthermore, the monitoring or supervising physician shall appear
at the next meeting of the Board's Probationer's Committee, and at
such other times as are requested by the Board’s Probationer’s
Committee. Failure to appear by the monitor or supervisor as
directed shall constitute a violation of the Board’s Final Order.

D. The supervisor or monitor must be a licensee under
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, in good standing without restriction
or limitation on his license. In addition, the Board’s
Probationer’s Committee may reject any proposed supervisor or
monitor on the basis that he has previously been subject to any
disciplinary action against his medical license in this or any

other jurisdiction. The supervisor or monitor must be actively

ll

engaged in the same or similar Specialty area unless otherwise
provided by the Board’s Probationer’s Committee. The Board's
Probationer’s Committee may also reject the proposed monitor for
good cause shown.
Accordingly, the parties shall adhere to and abide by all of the
terms and conditions of the Consent Agreement, as amended.
This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of
the Agency.
DONE AND ORDERED this /(3 day L)F_-i%M/“/ , 1994.
BOARD OF MEDICINE
/\
/
CK/ UM/ (Z517 (:OL/Q/ iz/i‘a

EDWARD A. DAUER, M.
CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Steven A. Field, M.D.,
615 Vonderberg Drive, Brandon, Florida 33511, and by ihteroffice
delivery to Larry G. McPhers on, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney, Agency
for Health Care Administration, Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe
Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, at or before 5:00 P.M.,
this day of , 1994.

 

E‘ii'iEC‘i E1. HRRRIS , Ed . D .
Executive Director

STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

AGENCY FOR HEALTH
CARE ADMINISTRATION”

PETITIONER,

VS. CASE NUMBER: 93-13516

STEVEN A. FIELD, M.D.,

RESPONDENT.

 

CONSENT AGREEMENT
Steven A. Field, M. D., referred to as the “Respondent,“ and
the Agency For Health Care Administration, referfed to as ”Agency,”
stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and to the entry of
a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as ”Board,”
incorporating the stipulated Facts and Stiphlated Disposition in
this matter.
STIPULATED FACTS
1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed
physician in the State of Florida having been issued license number
ME 0027678.
2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint

filed by the Agency and properly served upon Respondent with

' NOTE: Pursuant to Section 20.42, Florida Statutes, effective
July 1, 1994, all Boards in the Medical Quality Assurance Section
of the Department of Business and Professional Regulation were
transferred to the newly created Agency for Health Care

Administration.

violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules enacted

pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative

Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.
3. Patient was presented for surgical procedure and the
incorrect ankle was prepped and draped for surgery by operating

room personnel.
4. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of

fact contained in the Administrative Complaint.

STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458,
Florida Statuteé, and the jurisdiction of the Department and the

Board.
2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute violations of

Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative

Complaint.
STIPULATED DISPOSITION
l. FUTURE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the future

violate Chapters 455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules

promulgated pursuant thereto.

2. FINE. The Board Shall impose an administrative fine in
the amount of $2,500.00 against the Respondent. The fine Shall be
paid by the Respondent to the Board Of Medicine within 60 days of
its imposition (filing) by Final Order of the Board.

3. Respondent shall explain to the Board the circumstances of

this case and how his subsequent training and present approach will

prevent future occurrences such as the one in the Administrative

Complaint. 4

4. Respondent shall explain to the Board how he and the
hospital have changed their approach to prevent future occurrences
of this from happening again.

5. Respondent shall attend 20 hours of Category I Continuing
Medical Education in the area of risk management within one year of

the filing of the Final Order of the Board.

6. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject
to the approval of the Board and the Agency. In this regard, the
foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs) shall have
no force and effect unless a Final Order incorporating the terms of
this Agreement is entered by the Board.

7. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting of
the Board where this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in
conjunction with the consideration of this Agreement by the Board,
shall respond to questions under oath from the Board, Board Staff
or Agency Staff. The Respondent shall be prepared to explain the
circumstances involved in this matter and what measures have been
taken to prevent a reoccurrence.

8. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by the Respondent may be used as
direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding; however,

such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment

purposes.

 

9. Respondent and the Agency fully understand that this joint
Agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will in no
way preclude additional proceedings by the Beard and/or the Agency
against the Respondent for acts or omissions not specifically set
forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit A herein.

10. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Agreement.

11. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will bear his own attorney’s fees and
costsy resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney’s fees or costs
from the Department in connection with this matter.

12. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the
Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by
the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or
any of its members from further participation, consideration or

resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED this £—

 

 

STEVEN A. FIELD

Before me, personally appeared \572L2n) /<K /;;XO /ﬂ10 ,
whose identity is known to me by f¢ﬂ5§n1ﬂﬁk; (type of
identification) and who, under oath, cknowledges that his
signature appears above.

.a,
Sworn to and subscribed before me this [5 day of

wa/sf , 1994.
NOTARY PUBLIC

M Commission Ex ires: t PATSYANNBAIPLI
y p «c Sumanmm

WQWmEmemawm
Comm. = CC 202325

 

7L

APPROVED tLiSCQQ\ day Of , 1994.

George Stuart

Secr eta]:
ﬂ /
wﬂ

Lar y G. McPherson, Jr.
ef Attorney
Medical Section

   

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE ,;

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,

PETITIONER,

VS. CASE NO. 9313516

Steven A. Field, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

 

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Business and
Professional Regulation, hereinafter referred to as ”Petitioner,”
and files this Administrative Complnihtr before the Board of
Medicine against Steven A. Field, M.D. hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent,” and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.165, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0027678. Respondent’s last known address is 615
Vohderburg Drive, Brandon, Florida 33511—5972.

3. Respondent’s specialty is orthopedic surgery.

4. On or about June 22, 1993, Patient #1, a 46 year old
female, was admitted to Brandon Hospital with an admission

diagnosis of right ankle pain and synovitis. Patient #1 had a

   

history of pain and discomfort in her right ankle over the past few
months. After conservative therapy and anti—inflammatory
medications failed, Patient #1 was schedulea for an arthroscopic
evaluation.

5. Physical examination of Patient #1’5 extremities by
Respondent revealed no abnormalities except to the right ankle.
The right ankle was noted to be tender with swelling present.

6. Patient #1 signed a Consent for Medical/Surgical
Procedure form dated June 23, 1993, which authorized Respondent to
perform an arthroscopy on her right ankle.

7, On or about June 25, 1993, Respondent performed an
arthroscopic debridement on Patient #1'5 left ankle, It was noted
in the Nursing Opeiative Record that the pre—operative diagnosis
was pain in the right ankle, and the operative procedure performed
was left ankle arthroscopy and debridement of synovium.

8. After the mistake was discovered, Patient #1 was returned
to the operating room where Respondent performed a synovial
resection of the right ankle.

9. Respondent practiced medicine below the acceptable
standard of care in that Respondent performed unnecessary surgery
on Patient #l’s left ankle when she was diagnosed and admitted for
pain and synovitis in her right ankle.

10. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent has
violated Section 458.331(l)(t), Florida Statutes, through gross or
repeated malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that

level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a

   

reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under

similar conditions and circumstances.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of
an administrative fine, issuance Of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board
deems appropriate. Petitioner is not seeking permanent revocation
or suspension of the Respondent’s license.

SIGNED this g day of %

George S

  
    
 
 
 
  

, 1994.

 

ecretary

  

higt,

. McPherson, J .
Medical Attorney

FILED

Larry G. McPherson, Jr. A . 4 .
Chief Medical Attorney DwammMorhmgmsm;PmmﬁmmlthWM
Department of Business and Professional RegulatiogtmnchRK

1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750 qr‘
Florida Bar #788643 ; &:/§ \ ..
CLERK ”X: :-/ e ’W
,1 , \l

   

 

Chie

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

LGM/ceb

PCP: January 26, 1994 r2 2
Katims, Diblan, Fenwick DATE - ‘7 I

Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (10) days of any
Changes of said addresses. Furthermore, Respondent shall notify
the Board within ten (10) days in the event that Respondent leaves
the active practice of medicine in Florida.

4. In the event that Respondent leaves the active
practice of medicine in this state for a period of thirty days or
more, the following provisions of his probation shall be tolled:

a. The time period of probation shall be tolled.

b. The provisions regarding supervision, whether
direct or indirect by another physician.

c. The provisions regarding preparation of
investigative reports detailing compliance with this Consent
Agreement.

5. In the event that Respondent leaves the active
practice of medicine for a period of one year or more] the Board’s
Probationer’s Committee may require Respondent to appear before the
Probationer’s Committee and demonstrate his ability to practice
medicine with skill and safety to patients prior to resuming the
practice of medicine in this State.

6. Respondent shall not practice except under the
indirect supervision of a physician fully licensed under Chapter
458 who has been approved by the Board or its Probationer’s
Committee. Absent provision for and compliance with the terms
regarding temporary approval of a monitoring physician, Respondent
shall cease practice and not practice until the Board’s

Probationer’s Committee approves a monitoring physician.

Respondent shall have the monitoring physician with him at his
first probation appearance before the Board’s Probationer’s
Committee. A failure of the Respondent or his monitoring physician
to appear at the scheduled probation meeting shall constitute a
violation of the Board’s Final Order. Failure of the Respondent or
the monitoring physician to appear at the scheduled Probation
Committee shall constitute a violation of this Order. Prior to
approval of the monitoring physician by the Board’s Probationer's
Committee, the Respondent shall provide to the monitoring physician
a copy of the Administrative Complaint and Final Order filed in
this case. Prior to the approval of the monitoring physician by
the Board's Probationer’s Committee, Respondent shall submit to the
Board’s Probationer’s Committee a current curriculum vitae and
description of the current practice from the proposed monitoring
physician. Said materials shall be received in the Board office no
later than fourteen days before the Respondent’s first scheduled
probation appearance. The attached definition of a monitoring
physician is incorporated herein. The responsibilities of a
monitoring physician shall include:
(a) Submit quarterly reports, in affidavit form,

which shall include:

1. Brief statement of why physician is on
probation.

2. Description of probationer’s practice.

3. Brief statement of probationer’s compliance

with terms of probation.

4. Brief description of probationer’s

relationship with monitoring physician.

5. Detail any problems which may have arisen
with probationer.

Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that
the monitoring physician submits the required reports.

(b) Be available for consultation with Respondent
whenever necessary, at a frequency of at least once quarterly.

(0) Review 25% percent of Respondent’s patient
records selected on a random basis at least once every month. In
order to comply with this responsibility of random review, the
monitoring physician shall go to Respondent’s office once every
month. At that time, the monitoring physician shall be responsible
for making the random selection of the records to be reviewed by
the monitoring physician.

(d) Report to the Board any violations by the
probationer of Chapter 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto.

7. The Board shall confer authority on the Chairman of
the Board’s Probationer’s Committee to temgorarily approve
Respondent's monitoring physician. In order to obtain this
temporary approval, Respondent shall submit to the Chairman of the
Board’s Probationer’s Committee the name and curriculum Vitae of
the proposed monitoring physician. This information shall be

furnished to the Chairman of the Board’s Probationer’s Committee by

way of the Board of Medicine’s executive director, within 48 hours
after Respondent receives the Final Order in this matter. This
information may be faxed to the Board of Medicine at (904) 487—9622
or may be sent by overnight mail or hand delivery to the Board of
Medicine at the Agency for Health Care Administration, 1940 North
Monroe Street, Suite 601 Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750. In
order to provide time for Respondent’s proposed monitoring
physician to be approved or disapproved by the Chairman of the
Board’s Probationer’s Committee, Respondent shall be allowed to
practice medicine while approval is being sought, but only for a
period of five working days after Respondent receives the Final
Order. If Respondent’s monitoring physician has not been approved
during that time frame, then Respondent shall cease practicing
until such time as the monitoring physician is temporarily
approved. In the event that the proposed monitoring physician is
not approved, then Respondent shall cease practicing immediately.
Should Respondent’s monitoring physician be approved, said approval
shall only remain in effect until the next meeting of the Board’s
Probationer’s Committee. Absent said approval, Respondent shall
not practice medicine until a monitoring physician is agproved.
8. In View of the need for ongoing and continuous
monitoring or supervision, Respondent Shall also submit the
curriculum vitae and name of an alternate monitoring physician to
be approved by the Board or its Probationer’ Committee. Such
physician shall be licensed pursuant to Chapter 458, Florida

Statutes, and shall have the same duties and responsibilities as

specified for Respondent’s monitoring physician during those
periods of time which Respondent’s monitoring physician is
temporarily unable to provide supervision. Prior to practicing
under the indirect supervision of the alternate monitoring
physician or the direct supervision of the alternate supervising
physician, Respondent shall so advise the Board’s Probationer’s
Committee in writing. Respondent shall further advise the Board’s
Probationer’s Committee in writing of the period of time during
which Respondent shall practice under the supervision of the
alternate monitoring physician. Respondent shall not practice
unless he is under the supervision of either the approved
monitoring physician or the approved alternate.

9. Respondent shall submit semi—annual reports in
affidavit form, the contents of which shall be specified by the
Board. The reports shall include:

(a) Brief statement of why physician is on
probation.

(b) Practice location.

(c) Describe current practice (type and
composition).

(d) Brief statement of compliance with probationary
terms.

(e) Describe relationship with monitoring
physician.

(f) Advise Board of any problems.

10. Respondent understands that during this period of
probation, semi—annual investigative reports will be compiled with
the Department concerning his compliance with the terms and
conditions Of probation and the rules and statutes regulating the
practice of medicine.

ll. Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply
with the terms of the Final Order issued based on this proceeding.
Such costs includel but are not limited to, the costs of
preparation of the investigative reports detailing compliance with
the terms of the Final Order entered in this case, the cost of
analysis of any blood or urine specimens submitted pursuant to the
Final Order entered as a result of this proceeding, and
administrative costs directly associated with Respondent’s
probation. See Section 458.33l(2)l Florida Statutes.

3. Paragraph 5. of the stipulated Disposition shall be
amended to reflect that within one (1) year of the filing of the
Final Order in this cause, the Respondent shall attend ten (10)
hours of Category I Continuing Medical Education courses in the
area of medical records keeping and ten (10) hours in the area of
risk management. Respondent shall submit a written plan to the
Chairman of the Board’s Probationer’s Committee for approval prior
to the completion of said courses. The Board confers authority on
the Chairman of the Board’s Probationer's Committee to approve or
disapprove said continuing education Courses. In addition,
Respondent shall submit documentation of completion of these

continuing medical education courses in his quarterly report.

These hours shall be in addition to those hours required for
renewal of licensure. Unless otherwise approved by the Board or
the Chairman of the Board’s Probationer’s Committee, said
continuing education courses shall consist of a formal live lecture
format.

4. within ninety (90) days of the filing of the Final Order
in this cause, the Respondent shall obtain a quality assurance
consultation. An independent, certified risk manager will review
Respondent's current practice. Specifically, this independent
Consultant shall review east type of procedure performed by
Respondent, the training and duties of Respondent’s medical staff.
This consultant will prepare a report addressing Respondent’s
practice. This report will include suggested improvements of the
quality assurance of Respondent’s practice. Respondent will submit
this report, as well as documentation that demonstrates his
compliance with the suggestions enumerated in the report, to the
Board’s Probationer’s Committee for approval.

PROVISIONS GOVERNING PHYSICIANS PRACTICING UNDER
SUPERVISION OF ANOTHER PHYSICXAN

I. DEFINITIONS:

  

A. INDIRECT SL‘ERVISION is supervision by a monitoring
physician whose responsibilities are set by the Board. Indirect
supervision does not require that the monitor practice on the same
premises as the Respondent. However, the monitor shall practice

within a reasonable geographic proximity to Respondent, which shall

be within 20 miles unless otherwise provided by the Board’s

\E}

Probationer’s Committee, and shall be readily available for
consultation. The monitor shall be board—certified in the same
specialty area in which Respondent practices, unless otherwise
ordered by the Board’s Probationer's Committee.

B. DIRECT SUPERVISION is supervision by a supervising
physician. Direct supervision requires that the supervisor and
Respondent work on the same premises. Specific responsibilities
are set by the Board. The supervisor shall be board—certified in
the same specialty area in which Respondent practices, unless
otherwise ordered by the Probationer’s Committee.

II. Provisions governing all supervised or monitored
physicians:

A. The supervisor/monitor shall be furnished with copies
of the Administrative Complaint, Final Order, Stipulation (if
applicable), and other relevant orders.

B. The Respondent shall not practice without a
monitoring or supervising physician unless otherwise ordered by the
Board. The Respondent shall appear at the next meeting of the
Board’s Probationer’s Committee following entry of a Final Order
with his proposed supervisor or monitor unless otherwise ordered by
the Board. In the event that Respondent has not obtained temporary
agproval of his monitor 0; supervisor by? the Chairman of the
Board’s Probationer’s Committee prior to that first meeting of the
Board’s Probationer's Committee, then Respondent may not Egagtjce
medicine until he has obtained such agproval. Temporary approval

is only available if provided for in the Final Order.

10

