STATE OF FLORIDA
xAGENCY FGR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICENE

AGENCY ma HEALTH CARE ﬁmiomerwmwmiﬁéfa’

. * 1 FILED
AEMZNI§TRATION, BOARD 0” AgmyﬁrﬂmmﬂhmAmmﬁwmm
MuﬂICZh E , AGENCY mm:

3.8. Power, Ag y Clark
??etitioner, Briﬁwdﬂ—LW‘

Deputy Agency Clerk
Va CASE NUMBER: 93-13656
LECENSE NUMBER: ME 0062437

ATUL R. SHAH, M.D.,

Respondent.

___/
3mm; ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine {Board} pursuant
to Section 120.57{3), Florida Statutes, on August 6, 1994 in
Orlando, Florida, for consideration Of a Consent Agreement
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in
the above-styled case" Upon consideration of the Consent
Agreement, the documents submitted in support thereof, the
argumenﬁs of the parties, and being Otherwise advised in the
premises, the Board rejected the Consent Agreement proposed ané
offered an amendment at the hearing; which amenwment was accepted

without objectian by the parties.

H
a

IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that thé Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorgaratad by reference herein with the amendment that the

Reyrimand set forth in ?aragreph 3 of the Stigulated Dispositicn

 

. me was transferreﬁ
. Regulatian ta thﬂ
$traticn pursuant ta Section 20.42;

 
 
 
 

active July 01; the Ecar§ of M“
& Departmént cf » in ss ané Pyofessi
far Health Cara édm;
‘. Statutea.

      

  

shail be changed to reflact a Letter of Concern. Aﬁccréingly, the

partie$ shall adhere to and abide by all cf the terms ané
conéiticns of the Consent Agreement, as amended.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk ef

the Agency.
p
DONE AND ORDERED this gag: day __£%Q%%ﬁ§éﬁz€ , 1994.

BOARD OF MEDECINE

 

    

EDWARD Ag BAUER, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

CER?IFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and cerrect copy of the foregoing
has been provideé by certified v.5. Mail to Atul R. Shah, M.D.g
12613 Catamaran Place, Tampa, Florida 33624i Rancy S. Paikoff,
Esquire, Pest Office Box 1669, Clearwater, Florida 34615, and by
interoffice delivery t0 Larry G. McPhergon, Jr., Chief Medical
Attorney, Agency fer Health Care Administration, Narthwood Centre,
1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Floriéa 32399—0792, at or

befare 5:00 P.M., this day of , 1994.

 

 

WARM :6 EARRIS, Ed.D.
Executive Director

WWFGRE; the Patitigmaz raagaeeatfully rmas’ts the Mara 9f
Esiicimaa enter an Order imxkecasing mm a: mama cf the fallawing
yenaltieags: permanent ravoca‘ticn er smspenaicra ﬁf the Responﬁent’sﬁ
liaensag raatricticm mg “the Ragpondent'g practice, imposition 05 a3
adminiatxative fine, iﬁsuansa of a reprimamiy glacemant of tha

Re$panéi£nt en probatien, amiior any other zalief that the Boarii

   

dasmg azgyropriate .

SIGEQED this 070 day 0f -‘_ I

CQWSEIL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry Gw McPherson, Jr:

Chief ﬁadical Atterney

Department at Business anﬁ Prafessianal Regulation
1940 Earth Monroe Street

Taliahaﬁgee, Fierida 3239Qm0750

Florida Bar #7386é3

magaz- F%EEED

PCP: March 2’ 1994 :nﬁessianaiaeguiaﬁm

Katims Diblan Fenwick Ba mater? Easiness 3-“!!! P
' ' W 9% am

 

gﬁﬂﬁfﬁ Q? F&Gﬁim
E3EE‘MEHM OF EUEZEEEﬁ' mm mmmmmm REQWTI‘Z‘E

mmmmgm 01? waxmaa AME?
moymsmm nmmmom

?etitimmr .,

V.
DEER 6333 Eﬁe §3~13§5§

Rfﬂga EL 8w, 3.3.

Roayandwt a

 

gmasm am

Atul R. Shah, M.EJ. , referred to as the "Respondent,“ and the
Department of Business and Prefessianal Regulaticm, referred to as
“Departumnt, " stipulate and agree to the fullcwing Agreement and to
the entry of a. Final arder of the 39am c-f maéicineg referred tea as
“Baar-ﬁﬁ’ incorporating tﬁe stipulated Facts and stipulated;
Dispasitzion in this matter.

STEEQ’TLEBEEQ Hm

1. At all times maie’ilial berated. Resyandeﬁt was a licensed
physician in the State cf Flariﬁa having been issueé license number
NE {3062;337,

2% Respondant was charged by an Admiﬁis’trative Camplaint
fileé by the Department amﬁ pxcaperly sewed :3an Respondent with

violatisng of Chaptez 453, cmriéa Statutea, anﬁ. the rules anac‘ted

puzsuant thereto. A traa aﬁﬂ corract ampy 3f tag Administrativg
Camplaint 13 attachaﬁ hereta as Exhibit A.

3“ Respcndent neithar aﬁmita mar denisg tha aliegations af
E&Gt uamtained in the aﬁmimistrativa Complaiﬁiu

§EIEQEEEELJEEEE£EEﬁﬂﬁJﬁiﬁﬂE

1% Respondent admita that, im hiﬁ capaciﬁy as a licenseé
physician, he is subject ta the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458,
Flerida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department and the
Beard»

2. Respondent aémitg that ‘the facts set farth in the
Admimigtrative Complaint, if pravenp wenld censtitute vinlations cf
Chaptar 458, Florida Statutes, as allegea in the Administrative
Camplaimt.

ﬁiiﬁﬁhﬁiﬁﬁmﬁﬁﬁkgﬁliiﬂﬁ

Reapcndent shail mot in the future

 

vialata Chapters 455, 453 and 893, Fioriéa Statutes, or the ruleg
premulgated pursuant theretq. Friar t0 sigming this agreemenfzP
Resgcwdent read Chapter& @555 458, and 893, Flerida Statutes? ané
thw Rulas of the Boaré of Medicine, at Seation 61F6, Florida
Aﬂministrative Code.

3. gxﬁﬁL The Baaxﬁ Shall impose an aﬁministrative fine in
the amount at $1,500.93 against tbs Resyﬁndante The fine shall be
paid by the Eﬁspondent ta the Executige §izector cf the Board

witxin 39 éays of itS impaﬁiiion by Final Oréer 9f the Eeard.

.35 gﬁiﬁgmﬁﬂﬂ& Th3 Rﬁspandant ahalx receivg m raprimand Erﬁm
tha Baarﬂ mt Meﬁicinea

£6 Iﬁ is expremSEy unﬁarstooﬂ that thig Agraemant 1m subﬁect
ta tha approval ef the Beard and tha Departmant. In this regarﬁ,
tha feregoinq paragraphg (anﬂ unly the foregaing paragraphs) shazl
have an force and effect wnless a Final order incorporating the
termg oi thia Agreement is entered by the Board.

59 Respondent ghall agpear before the Ecard at the meeting 9?
the award where thia Agraenent is considazaéo Respondent, in
ccnjunation with the consideration of this $greament by the Boarﬁ,
shali respond t0 questicns under math fram the Board, Boaré staff
at Department Staff. Respondent shall be prepared to explain tha
circumstances.invelvaﬂ in this maﬁter amd what measurég have h@en
taken t0 prevent a reaurzence.

§. Should thig agraement be rejectﬁﬁg n0 atatement made in
furtherance éf this Agreement by the Respanﬁant may be use& ag
direct avidence agaiagt the Raspemdent in any ?roceeding; hawevaxy
such statementﬁ may ha aged by the ?etitionar for impaﬁchgﬁnt
purpaaas.

?. Respondent aaé the Department fully understand that this
jsiﬁt Agreement anﬁ gubgequent Final Order incerpﬁratimg same will
im ne way preclude aééitienal prcceedings by the Beard andjez ﬁhe

Bepartment against the Respandent fox acts 3: emissions mat

s§eai§i$ally set forth iﬁ tha Aﬁminiatrativa Qamglaint attachaa a5
Exhibit ”A" herein.

8, Upan the Bnaré’g §éaptian of thiw Agreement, Respondent
expxeaﬁiy waives all farther pracadural stagg; §ﬁé expressly waiveg
a1: rights to seek juﬁiciai raview af or te etherwise challenge er
contest the vali&ity Qf aha Agreemant and thé Final Order of thg
Bcéré incorpcrating said Agreement,

95 Upon the Board’a adoption of this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will baa: hi3 awn attorney’a fees anﬁ
coats resulting from grosecutiom or ﬂefense of this wattage
Reapamﬂant waives the righg t0 seek any attcrnay's fees or cogta
from the Department in connection with this matter.

19. This Bgreemenﬁ £3 executed by the Responﬂent for tha
purpose at avoiding further adminiatrative actien with respect ta
this cause. In this regaxﬁm Eeaymndent authorizes the Baard ﬁe
review and examine all investigative file materialg concerning
Respen&ént prior ta 9: in canjmnction with cansidaration 0f tha
Agreement. Furthermare, shcula this jeimt Agreement mat ha
scaepﬁed by the anré, it is agreed that yresentation to am@
consiaaration of this Agreement and othar dacuments and matterg by
the award shall net unfairiy er illegally grejudice the Boaré 92
any of its members fram further participatien, cansideratian ﬁr

regalution of these procaaﬁinqs.

swam this j“

 

Begara ma, personally aygmaz‘aéim Ah; 5; QMJ-x ,whmw

idantity is knmm to me: by 912M» M (type 43f
iéen‘tificatién) and wﬁmg under 9am, ckﬁcwledges that his/her

sxgnatura appears abovge
Sworn “‘m and subscribaéi before mﬁ tfiis :2 day 0f

éﬂga , l9§4a

 

 
 

amass? mm: mi?“
m cwzsswn m. 53%., 3.

my Cmmission Expiras: 85mm 75"“ umm 5'45» W:

APPROVED thia 52 ﬂay of

George Simart
Secretary

 

 

    
   

eéical Section

S?RTE 0? FLﬁRInA
DE?ARTHENT 0F ﬁﬁSlﬁESS 3ND PROFESSIGEEEWEEQELRTEQN
BEARQ 0F MEEXCINE

DEPARTWENT OF BUSENESS ANQ
PRGFESSEONRL REGULRTIGE,
PETKTIGﬂERE
VS. CASE EC» 93-13656
ATUL Ra SHAH, H.D.,

RESPONDEKTu

__.__—-_____,____—.——-—--=——-—

!
kDéIN S; T’V“

C&MES NOW the Petitionery Department of Business ané
Profesaional Regulation, hereinaftar referred to as "Petitioner,“
anﬂ files this AdminiStrative Camplaimt Eaters the Board of
Medicine against Atul R. Shah, M.D.§ hereinafter referred to as
ﬁxespcndent," and allegeﬁg

1» Petitioner is ﬁne state agency charged with regulating
the ?ractice of medicine pursuant :9 section 20.165, Floriéa
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statuteg; and Chapter 458, Floriéa
Statutes.

2, Respondent is anﬂ has been at all times material hereta
a liaensed physician in the State cf Flariﬂa, having been issued
licensa number HE 00§243?c Respandent’g last known address is 1@
Bleecker Street, Jersey Cit , New Jeraay 973g7.

3. ﬁn ﬁr abaut January 22, 1992, Res9anéent aypiieé ta ta;
Fiariﬁa Beard cf Mediaime ﬁar licensura ta yracﬁice meﬂicine in ihe

State 5f Flarida,

$3 an or abaut Jame 32, 1§923 Respanéent was licenseﬂ by the
?iariﬁa Baard of ﬂeéicina to practice maﬁicine in the State 95
Flemiﬂa.

§. On at abamt cataber 22, 3992, the New Jersey Boarﬁ 0f
Kaﬁical Examiners issueﬂ a Provisional Order denying Responéant
licensure to practiee medicine in the state 9f New Jersey by virtua
5f Respondent's misregresentatians ané false statements t0 the xew
Jersey Board GE Medical Examiners, and/or his yractice of medicine
without licensure.

6. On or about February 18, 1993, the New Jersey Board ef
ﬂedical Examiners issued a Final arder denying Respondent licensure
t9 gractice medicine in the State of New Jergey.

7. Respondent failaﬁ to natify the Florida Board of Heﬁicina
that the New Jersey Board GE Medical Examiners haﬂ issued ta
Respondent a Final Ordar ﬁenying licensure ta practice medicine.

QQQEE_Q§§

8o Petitioner realleges amd incorparates paragraphﬁ one (1)
through seven (7), as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

9. Respondent was denied a licensura ta practice medicine by
a garticular juriséictinn in that Respcnﬁgnt agplied far licensure
ta practice medicine with the New Jersey Eaard mf Medical Examiners
aﬁé was issued a Finak Oréer denying licensure to precﬁise
meéicine.

1%” Based ch aha ?xecedinq ailegatimns, Regpoﬂdent vialataé

geezion 458‘33lélggbgé Flcgiﬁa Stgtaﬁesg hav‘ﬁq a licamse ﬁr tﬁa

autharity to practicm meeﬂicim; :evakew, auagenéeci, car ntharwian
actaé ageainat, incluﬁing ”aha awaia}. of licenauara, by the licerming
autharity nﬁ any juriﬁﬁiatien, including its agencies er
subdivissiama. Tha licensing aigthai'ityims acceptance 61’ a physician’s
relinquishment cat” a licerﬁa, §tiw1a‘tion, conseyat order, or m:nar
settlamant, offereﬁ in reggcnge to or in anticiyatiam of the filing
of administrative charge@ against the yhyaicianig license, shall be

censtmae‘i as action against aha phywician’s licemsa.

 

11c. Petitioner reallegas and innargorates garagraphs one (1)
throwgh seven (‘7) and nine {9% , as if fully 3:21: ferth herein this
Count 5mm. 7

12“ Respandant faileci to rework to the Florida Board of
Hedisima that action haé been taken against his license to practice
medicine by armament state in that Respendent haﬁ been issueé a
Fin&1 mﬁer denying licensura ts practice medicine by the New
Jersey Beard of Medical Examiners.

13¢ Based on the preceding allegations, Resgaondent violatezi
Secticn $58.331g1) (kk), Flerida Statates, tailing to repert, 1E3
writing; within thirty aays, if acticm as ﬁefineé in paragraph (b)
has begﬁ taken aqainsﬁ cne’s license ta yractice medicine in

anethez state, territory; m: country“

