STATE OF FLORIDA

BOARD OF MEDICINE .
J-‘Inrd (mu: Nu. DOH.I.:..<4M2nDach'-g' (‘1‘?)
P :ED

, Duparlmtm nf Health
C‘ .
DHPARTMLNT OF HEALTH! AngelanaII‘AGFNFVCLERK .

Petitioner. HJ‘Wﬁ—M . D%A-
Depuu- Apr nay CI' k

VS. CASE N01: 93-14493
LICENSE NO.: MEOOS3419

   

WILLIE ALEXANDER PENNICK, M.D.,

Respondent.

 

EIEBL_QEDE3

THIS CAUSE came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant to
Sections 120.569 and 120.57(4}, Florida Statutes, on April 4, 1998, in
Ft. Lauderdale. Florida. for consideration of a Consent Agreement
{attached hereto as Exhibit A} entered into between the partieE in the
above—stylad cause. Upon consideratian of the Consent Agreement, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the parties,
and being Gtherwise advised in the premises.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement as
submitted he and is hereby appraved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the garties shall
adhere to and abide by all the terms and conditions of the Consent
Agreement.

This Final Order shall take effect upon being filed with the

Clerk hi the Department of Health.

DONE AND ORDERED this Q C? day of $/. / , 1998.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

 

JOHN W. GLOTFELTY. M.D.

CHAIRMAN
QERTIFICATE QE SEgEICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy Uf the foregoing
Final Order has been provided by U.S. Mail to willie Alexander
Pennick, M.D.. c/o Maria Santoro, Esquire, George, Hartz, Lundeen,
Flagg & Palmer. Suite 900, Highpoint Center, 106 East College Avenue,
Tallahassee. Florida 32301, and by interoﬁfice delivery to Larry G.
McPherson, Jr., Chief Attorney, Agency for Health Care Administration,
2727 Mahan Drive, Tallahassee, Florida 32308—5403. on Dr before 5:00

p.m.. this day of , 1398.

D. ADDRESSES Respondent must keep current residence and
practice addresses on file with the Board Respondent shall notify the Board within ten
(10) days of any changes of said addresses. Funhemore, if the ReSpondem‘s license is on
probation, the Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (10) days in the evant that
Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine in Florida I

E. w Pursuant to Section 458.331(2), Florida Statutes, the
Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply with the terms of this Consent
Agreement. Such costs include, but are: not limited to, the costs of preparation of
Investigative Reports detailing compliance wiﬂl the terms of the Consent Agreement,
obtaining supervision or monitoring of the practice, the cost of quality assurance reviews,
and the Board's admimstrativccosts directlyr associated with Respondent's probation.

F, BQAﬁQgspDRESS, Unless otherwise directed by the Board oﬁﬁce,
all ﬁnes,rcports, correspondence and inquiries shall be sent to: Bmlrd nfMedicine, Client
Services Unit, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—6750, Attn:
Medical Compliance Ofﬁcer.

G. PROBATION TERMS. If probation was imposed by 1h: Final
Order of the Board, the following provisions are applicable.

1. DEFINITIONS:
3. INDIRECT SUPERVISION is supervision by a
monitoring physician (monitor), physicians assistant, respiratory care practitioner, as set
forth in the Consent Agreement, whose responsibilities are set by the Board. Indirect

supervision does not require that the monitor practice on the same premises as the

Respondent, however, the monitor shall practice within a reasonable geographjc proximity
to Respondent, which shall be within 20 miles unless otherwise provided by the Board and
shall be readily available for censuitation. The monitor shall be Board—eeniﬁed in the
Respondent's Sp ecialty area untess otherwise provided by the Board.

b. DIRECT SUPERVISION is supervision by a supervising
physician (supervisor), physicians assistant, resph'atory care practitioner, as set forth in the
Consent Agreement, whose responsibilities are set by the Board. Direct supervision
requires That the supervisor and Respondent work in the same ofﬁce. The supervisor shall
be boaId—certified in the Respondent‘s specialty area unless otherwise provided by the
Board.

:3. WE; or ”committee" are
members of the Board of Medicine designated by the Chairman of the Beard to serve as the

Probation Committee.

 

2. REE JUIKED SUPERVISION.

a. If the terms of the consent agreement include indirect
monitoring of the licensee’s practice (MONITORING) or direct monitoring of the licensees
practice (SUPERVISION),the Respondent shall not practice medicine without an approved
monitorfsupervisorﬁs speciﬁed by the CODSCDIA§F€BH18HLUIIIBSS otherwise ordered by the

Board.

b. The moniton’supervisormust be a licensee under Chapter
458, Floﬁda Statutes, in good standing and without restriction or limitation on his license.

In addition, the Board or Committee may reject any proposed monitorz’supervisor on the

basis that he has previously been subject to any disciplinary action against his medical
license in mis or any otherjurisdiction, is currently under investigation, or is the subject of a
pending disciplinary action. The meniton’supervisormust be actively engaged in the same
or similar speciality area unlese otherwise provided by the Board or Committee and be
practicing within a reasonable distance of 111:: Respondent's practice, a distance of no more
than twenty (20) miles unless otherwise speciﬁcally provided for in the consent agreement.
The BoaId or Committee may also reject an},r proposed monitorfsupervisorfor good cause
shown.

c. MECHANISM FOR APPROVAL OF
MONITORISU'PERVISDR:

(1). TEMPORARY APPROVAL. The Board
confers authority on the Chairman of the Board's Probation Committee to temporarily
approve Respondent's monitorfsupervisor. To obtain this temporary approval, Respondent
shall submit to the Chaiman of the Probation Committee the name and curriculum vitae of
the proposed monitorlsupervisor at The time this agreement is considered by the Board.
Once a F iua] Order adopting this Agreement is ﬁled, Respondent shall not practice
medicine without an approved monitorfsupervisnr. Temporary approval shall Only
remain in effect until the next meeting of the Probation Committee.

(2). FORMAL APPROVAL. Respondent shall
have the monitorfsupervisorwim him at his ﬁrst probation appearance before the Probation
Committee. Prior to consideration of the menitorisuperviser by the Committee, the

Respondent shall provide to the meniton’supervisera copy ofthe Administrative Complaint

10

and Final Order in this case. Respondent shall submit a current curriculum vitae and a
description of current practice from the proposed monitorfsupervisorto the Board ofﬁce no
later than fourteen days before the Respondent's ﬁrst scheduled probation appearance
Respondent's monitorﬂ'supervisorshatl also appear before the Probation Committee at such
other times as directed by the Committee. It shall be Respondent's responsibility to ensure
that the appearance of his monitoﬂsupervisoras directed. Failure of the morﬁtorfsupervisor
to appear as directed shall constitute a violation of the terms of this Stipulation and shall

subj eat the Respond em to disciplinmy action.

(1. CHANGE. IN MONITORJ’SUPERVISOR In the
event that Respondent's monitorfsuperviser is unable or unwilling to fulfill his
responsibilities as a morﬁtorfsupervisor as described above, then the Respondent shall
immediately advise the Board of this fact. Respondent shall immediately submit to the
Chairman of the Board's Probation Committee the name of a temporary moniton’supenrisor
for consideration. Respondent shall not practice pending approval of this temporary
moniton'supervisorby the Chairman ofthe Probation Committee. Furthermore, Respondent
shall make arrangements with his temporary monitorlsupewisor to appear before the
Probation Committee at its next regularly scheduled meeting for consideration of the
monitorfsupervisorhy the Committee. Respondent shall only practice underthe auspices of
the temporal}: moniton’superviser (approved by the Chairman} until the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Probation Committee whereat the issue of the Committee's
approval 0f the Respondent'snew moniton’supervisorshall be addressed.

3. CONTINUITY OF PRACTICE

1]

a. TOLLI'NG PROVISIONS. In the event the Respondent
leaves the State ofFlorida for a petiod of thirty days or more or otherwise does not or may
not engage in the active practice of medicine in the State ofFlorida, then certain provisions
of Respondent's probation (and only those provisions of the prubation) shall be tolled as
enumerated below and shall remain in a tolled status until Respondent retums to active
practice in the State of Florida:

(1 ). T36 time period ofprobation shall be tolled.

 

[2} "ho provisions regarding supervision whether
direct or indirect by the mmﬁten‘supewiser, and required _reports from the
monitorfsupcrvisorshall be tolled.

(3). The provisions regarding preparation of
investigative reports detailing compliance with this Stipulationshall be tolled.

(4). Any provisions regarding eonlmwﬁty service
shall be tolled,

b. ACTIVE PRACTICE. [n the event that Respondent
leaves the active practice of medicine for a period Of One year or more, the Probation
Committee may require Respondent to appear before the Probation Committee and

demonstrate his ability to practice medicine with skill and safety to patients prior to

resuming the practice ofmedicine or respiratory thetamr in this State.

12

3%

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH,

PETITIONER,

V. CASE NO. 93—14493

WILLIE ALEXANDER PENNICK, M.D‘

3

RESPONDENT.

wuuvkuvvv

 

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

COMES NOW the Pétitionar, the Department of Health, hereinafter referred to as
“Petitioner,” and ﬁles this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against Willie
Alexander Pexmick, M.D., hereinaﬁer referred to as “Respondent,“ and alleges:

I. Effective July 1, 199?, Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the
practice of medicine pursuant to Section 2043, Florida Statutes (Supp. 1996); Chapter 455,
Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes. Pursuant to the provisions of Section
20.43(3)(f), Florida Statutes, the Petitioner has contracted with the Agency for Health Care
Administration to provide qonsumer complaint, investigative, and prosecutoria] genices required
by the Division of Medical Quality Assurance, councils, or boards, as appropriate.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto a licensed physician in the
state of Florida, having been issued license number ME 0053419. Respondent‘s last known

address is 7334 Lem Turner Boulevard, JacksonvilIe, Florida 32208.

3. Rc5pondcnt is board certiﬁed in Family Practice.

AX

r‘

4. On orgbout December 4, 1990, Patient A.F. a ﬁﬁy—six (56) year old female, presented
to Respondent's office at St. Vincent's Medical Center, with complaints of headache and nausea.
Respondent diagnosed and prescribed treatment for hypertension, headache, and insomnia.

5. On 01' about January 24, 1991, Patient AF. returned to Respondent‘s ofﬁce for a
follow—up visiL ReSpondcnt diagnosed smgicaIIy—induced menopause, lethargy, and
hypertension. Respondent‘s treatment plan included blood work including a serum estradiol, a
mammogram, Prozac (antidepressant), and follow—up in six to eight (6—8) weeks. Oral hormone
replaeemcnt therapy was prescribed on or about January 31, 1991, pn'or to performance of Lhe
mammogram.

6. On or about Febmary 7, 1991, Patient AF. underwent the recommended mammogram
which was reported as showing a lobulated mass of the left breast, a small benign appean‘ng
nodular density in the right breast, and a large (2.? cm) lymph node in the lower portion of the
left axilla. A needle localization and biopsy were recommended by the radiologist. Reapondcnt
failed to discuss the mammogram results with Patient AF. and failed to refer Patient AF. for a
biopsy. There is no documentation in the patient’s medical records of the Respondent’s
acknowledgment of' the radiologist’s recommendations or of any action or treatment plan in
relation to the marmnogram ﬁndings or radiologist’s recommendation,

7. On or about Seiatcmber 6, 1991, Patient AF. returned to Respondent's ufﬁce with
complaints of a "knot" on the left breast and request for medicalion reﬁll. The Respondent
recommended a second mammogram and reﬁlled medications for hypertension and replacement

hormone therapy.

8. On o_r_ about September 12. 1991, Patient A.F. underwent the second mammogram
which was reported as shouting “palpable and mammographic ﬁndings suspect for malignancy"
and an increase in size of the mass lesion and lymph node as compared to the previous
mammogram on Febmaxy 7, 1991. Respondent referred Patient AP. to a surgeon for the biopsy
and further treatment which included a left partial mastectomy and axillary node dissection
followed by chemotherapy and irradiation therapy.

9. Respondent failed to practice medicine within the acceptable level of care in that he
failed to ascertain the initial mammogram results or review them with Patient A.F.

10. Respondent failed to practice medicine within the acceptable level of care in that he
failed to properly diagnose and treat Patic'nt AP. following the initial mammogram and failed to

refer Patient AF. far consultation.

11. ReSpunden: inapprupn'atcly préscﬁbed raplacemem hormone therapy on two

occasions without ﬁrst ascertaining the results the mammogram
m

12. Petitioner realieges and incorporates paragraphs one (I) through eleven (11), as if
fully set forth herein this Count One.

13. RESpondent fai1ed to practice medicine within the acceptable level of care in that
Respondent failed to ascel-tain the results of the initial mammogram which he ordered and
therefore the diagnosis was not appropriate, adequate) accurate or timely. Respondent also failed
in that the surgical consultation was also not timely.

14. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section 458.331(l)(t), Florida

Statutes, failing to practice medicine with that level of care. ski”, and treatment which is

M

recognized by g reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar

conditions and circumstances.

M32
15. Petitioner rcalleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1) through eleven {11) and
paragraph thirteen (13) as if fully set forth herein this Count Two.
16. Respondent prescribed, dispensed, administered, mixed, or otherwise prepared a
legend drug other than in the course of' his professional practice in that Respondent

inappmpriately prescribed replacement hormone therapy prior to ascertaining results of the

mammogram.

17. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent violated Section 453.331(1}(q), Florida
Statutes, by prescribing, dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing a legend drug,

including any controlled substance, other than in the course of the physician's professional

practice.

COUNT THREE
18. Petitioner rcalieges and incorporates paragraphs one (1) through eleven (11),
paragraph thirteen (13), andipalagraph sixteen (15) as if fully set forth herein this Count Three.
19. Reapondent failed to maintain any documentation or medical records related to his
acknowledgment of the radiologist’s recommendations from the Febmary 1991 mammogram m-
of any action or treatment plan in retazion to the manmlogram ﬁndings or radiologist‘s

recommendations.

20. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section 458.33](])(m), Florida
Statutes, failing to keep written medical recardsjustifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including. but not limited to patient histories; examination results: records 01’ drugs prescribed,

dispensed, or administered; and reports of consuitations and hospitalizations.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectﬁllly requests the Board of Medicine enter an order
imposing one or more of the following penalties: permanent revocation or suspension of the
Respendent‘s license, restriction of the Respondent‘s practice, imposition of an administrative
ﬁne, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the Reapondent on probation, the assessment of costs
related to the investigation and prosecution of this case, other than costs associated with an

attorney‘s time, as provided for in Section 455.624(3), Florida Statutes. andfor any other relief

that the Board deems appropriate.
SIGNED this 7 day of W ,1991

James T. Howell, M.D., Secretary

 

    

Larry G. McPherson, r.
ChiefMedicaI Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

ChiefMedical Attorney

Agency for Health Care Administration

P. O. Box 14229

Tallahassee, Florida 32317-4229

Florida Bar # 783643

RPCa’caI

PCP: September 15, 1997

PCP Members: Skinner, Bauer, Rodriguez

 

AMENDED CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY Lhat a true and correct copy of the foregoing Order has b&cn provided
by certiﬁed mai] [0 Willie A. Pcnnick. M.T).. [7’60 Edgcwood Avenue. Jacksonville. FL
32208. to Maria Sanmm, Esquire, George. Hanz. Lundcen‘ Hagg .5: Fulmcr. Suite 900.
Highpoint Center. 106 E. College Avenue. Tallahassee, FL 32301. and interofﬁce delivery to
Larry McPherson. Ir. . Chief Attorney. 272? Malian Drive. Tallahassee. Florida 32308—5403,

at or before 5:00 pm“ this day of . 1998.

 

 

,
O
1;

STATE OF FLORIDA m
DEPARTMENTOF HEALTH 1: F3
:5 E‘
3:? £5?
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, f: ‘T’
Petitioner, : 5::
_ F'—
v. AHCA Case No. 93-14493

WILLIE ALEXANDER PEN NI CK, M.D.,

Respondent.

W
Willie Alexander Pennick, M.D,, referred to as the "Respondent," and the
Depaﬂment of Health, referred to as "Department" stipulate and agree to the following
Agreement and to the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as

”Board," hlcorporatingthe Stipulated Facts and Stipulated Disposition in this matter.

STIPULATED FACTS

L At all times material hereto, Respondentwas a licensed physician in the State of

Flori :13 having been issued license number ME 0053419.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint ﬁled by the

Department and properly served upon Reapondent with violations of Chapter 45 8, Florida

Statutes, and the rules enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the

ExhibitA.

 

Administrative Co mplaint is attached hereto as I

3. Respondent admits the allegations of fact contained in the Admirﬁstrativc

Complaint for purposes ofﬂlese proceedings only.

STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed physician, he is subject to
the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the
Depaﬂment and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the Administrative Complaint, if
provcn, would constitute violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the
Administrative Complaint.

3. Respondent admits that the Stipulated Disposition in this case is fair,
appropriate and acceptableto Respondent.

W

1. FUTURE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the future Violate Chapters 455,
458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated pursuant thereto. Pn’or to signing
this agreement, Respondent read Chapters 455, 458, and 893, Florida Statutes, and the
Rules of the Board of Medicine, at Section 6438, Florida Administrative Code

2. w The Board shall impose an administrative ﬁne in the amount of three:
thousand ﬁve hundred dollars ($3,500.00) against the Respondent. The ﬁne shall be paid
by the Respondeutto the Board of Medicine within SIX |61 MONTHS of its imposition by
Final Order of the Board. THE RESPONDENT ACKNOVVLEDGES THAT THE
TEVIELY PAYMENT OF THE F [NE IS HISIEER LEGAL OBLIGATION AND
RESPONSIBILITY AND THE RESPONDENT AGREES TO CEASE
PRACTICING IF THE FINE IS NOT PAID AS AGREED TO IN THIS CONSENT

AGREEMENT, SPECIFICALLY: IF THE RESPONDENT HAS NOT RECEIVED

WRITTEN CONFIRMATION THAT THE FULL AMOUNT OF THE FINE HAS
BEEN RECEIVED BY THE BOARD OFFICE “’ITHIN SLX (6) MONTHS OF THE
FILING OF THIS FINAL ORDER, THE RESPONDENT AGREES TO CEASE
PRACTICE UNTIL SUCH “’RITTEN CONFIRMATION IS RECEIVED BY THE
RESPONDENT FROM THE BOARD. (SEE EXHIBIT B, PARAGRAPH F OF THIS

3. RECORDS COURSE. Respondentshall compiete the course, "Quality Medical
Rccnrd Keeping for Health Care Professionals,” sponsored by the Florida Medical
Association and the University of South Florida, or a Board-appmved equivalent, within
one year of the ﬁling of the Final Order.

4. QUALITY ASSURANCE CONSLETATION. An independent, certified risk
manager will review Respondent's current practice prior to the Board's consideration of this
Agreement. Speciﬁcally, this independent consultant shall review the ofﬁce procedures
cmpleyed at Respondent's practice. This consultant will prepare a report addressing
ResPLmdent's practice, This report will include suggested improvements of the quality
assurance of Respondent's practice. Respondent will submit this report, as well as
docmnentation that demonstrates his compliance with the suggestions enumerated in the
report, to the Board for consideration in cnnj unction with the Agreement Respondent shall
baa: the cost cf such consultationahd any necessary or appropriate follow—up consultation.

5. It is expresslyr understood that this Agreement is subject to the approval of the
Board and the Deparlment. In this regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing
paragraphs) shall have no force and effect unless a Final Order incorporating the terms of

this Agreement is entered by the Board.

Lu

6. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting of the Board where this
Agreement is considered. Respondent, in conjunction with the consideration of this
Agreement by the Board, shall fcspond to questions under oath from the Board, Board Staff
or Department Staff. Respondentshall be prepared to explain the circumstancesinvolved in
this matter and what measures have been taken to prevent a recurrence. However,
Respondentshall offer no evidence, testimony or argument that disputes or contravenes any
stipulated fact or conclusion aflaw.

7. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in furtherance of this
Agreement by the Respondent may be used as direct evidence against the Respondent in
any proceeding; however, such statements ma};r be used by the Petitioner for impeachment
purposes.

8. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this joint Agreement and
subsequentFinaI Order incorporating same will in no wag.r preclude additional proceedings
by the Board andfor the Department against the Respondent for acts 0r omissions net
Speciﬁcally set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit "A" herein.

9. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent expressly waives all
ﬁu‘lher procedural steps, and expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of 01' to
otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Ortier of the
Board incorporatiugsaid Agreement.

10. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement,1he parties hereby agree that with

the exception of costs noted above, each party will hear his own attorney's fees and costs

resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter. Respondent waives the right to seek
any attorney's fees or costs from the Department in connection with this matter.

11. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the purpose of avoiding
furihcr administrative acticm with respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent
authorizes the Board to review and examine all investigative ﬁle materials. concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the Agreement, Furthermore,
should this joint Agreement not be accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to
and consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by the Board shall
not unfairly 0r illegally prejudice the Board or any of its members from ﬁm‘her

participation, co nsid eration or resolution of these proceed 'Lngs.

SiGNED 311%“ at‘w 1993.
M5? féwwg/Q/

Willie Alexander Penniclg MD.

 

 

Before: me, personaiiy appeared 1dr] “ﬁx €9,501“ 7’CL ,whose identity is

known 1:0 me by ESL!) 531 S‘Ijm 0 H L‘ONS‘L (type ofidentiﬁcaﬁon} and who, under
oath,ackn0w1edgesthat hisfhcr signature appears above
Sworn to and subscribed before me thls £0‘jﬁt f day Of $55M?

1998.

    

  

'NOTAR ' UBLIC

My ComissionExpiresd LULQ, F1 ) 1 m

SUN“ CAPEHS
W WLWISS‘IGN I m 35mm

EXPIRESNLII; 7. 1993
am mu m Hm: mama

 

APPROVED ﬂaisfiZlay of% 1998.

James T. Howell
Secretary

    

. .
Larry G. McPherso , Jr.
ChiefA’ctornc).r

Medicai Section

By:

EXHIBIT B
STANDARD TERNIS APPLICABLE TO CONSENT AGREEMENTS

The follnwing arc the standard terms applicable to all consent agreements, including

sup ervision and moniton'ng provisions applicable to licensees on pmbaﬁ on.
A. PAYMENT OF FINES. Unless otherwise directed by the consent
agreement, all fines shall be paid by check or money order and sent to the Board address set
forth in paragraph F, below. The Board ofﬁce does not have the authority to change the

terms ofpayment nfany‘ ﬁne imposed by the Board.

B. COMMUNITY SERVICE AND CONTINUING EDUCATION

UNITS. Unless otherwise directed by the consent agreement, all community service

 

requirements, continuing education unitslcuurses must be completed, and documentation of
such completion submitted to the Board of Medicine at the address set forth below in
parayaph F, WITHIN ONE YEAR OF THE DATE OF TIIE FINAL ORDER.

C. LAWS AND RULES EXAMINATION. Unless otherwise directed
by the consent agreement, the Respondent shall take and obtain a score of at least 70%
correct on the Lam; and Rules Examination within six months of the Final Order. The
Respondent shall notify the Agency at least one week prior to the (late he/she wishes to take
the examination to schedule a time for the examination at one of the Agency's Investigative
Ofﬁces. The Respondent may take the exauﬁmtion as many times as needed to obtain a
passing score of 70%. Contact Donna S. Brown, (904) 487-9672, at the Agency for Health

Care Administration,to schedule a time for the examination, or to answer any questions.

