STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

BOARD OF MEDICI HMOMHNmBmﬂtmmmﬂ
Dale: '3‘ " (—74 ‘/
FILED BY AGENCY CLERK
Dept. of Business and Professional Regulation V

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND athWMmmAycyauk
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION ‘7z
awwm
Petitioner, CASE NO. 93-13568

LICENSE NO. ME0017778
VS.

JOHN R. BERNARDO, JR., M.D.,

Respondent.

 

FINAL_ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine pursuant to
Section 120.57(2), Florida Statutes, on February 4, 1994, in
Tampa, Florida. At the hearing, Petitioner was represented by
Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney. Respondent was
not present before the Board. The parties had been properly
noticed of the hearing. On November 9, 1993, Respondent executed
an Election of Rights indicating that he did not dispute the
allegations of fact in the Administrative Complaint, but
requested an informal hearing pursuant to Section 120.57(2),
Florida Statutes. Accordingly, the facts are not contested.
Upon consideration of the Administrative Complaint filed against
Respondent, Respondent's Election of Rights, and the arguments
presented, and having been otherwise fully advised in its
premises, the Board of Medicine makes the following findings

and conclusions:

FINDINGS OF EggT

 

1. On November 1, 1993, the Department of Business and
Professional Regulation filed an Administrative Complaint against
John R. Bernardo, Jr., seeking to take disciplinary action
against his license to practice medicine in Florida.

2. On November 9, 1993, Dr. Bernardo executed an Election
of Rights indicating that he did not dispute the allegations of
fact set forth in the Administrative Complaint.

3. The Board adopts as its findings of fact the allegations
set forth in paragraphs 1—6 and 8—9 of the Administrative
Complaint filed in this cause and which is attached to this
Final Order and incorporated herein by reference.

QQNCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. The Board has jurisdiction over the parties and subject
matter of this case pursuant to Section 120.57(2), Florida
Statutes and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Respondent
has violated Section 458.33l(l)(b) and (kk), Florida Statutes.

3. Pursuant to Section 458.331(2), Florida Statutes and
Rule 61F6—20, Florida Administrative Code, having determined that
a violation exists, it is appropriate for the Board to impose
disciplinary action against the license of John R. Bernardo, Jr.

DISPOSITION

 

WHEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED and ADJUDGED that Respondent
has violated Section 458.331(l)(b) and (kk), Florida Statutes,

and Respondent shall pay an administrative fine of $1,000.00

to the Board of Medicine within 30 days of the effective date of
this Final Order. Furthermore, Respondent shall attend ten (10)
hours of Category I continuing medical education in the area of
Risk Management within one (1) year of the effective date of this
Final Order. These hours shall be in addition to those hours
required for biennial renewal of licensure. Unless otherwise
approved by the Board, said continuing education courses shall
consist of a formal live lecture format.

This Final Order becomes effective upon its filing with the
Clerk of the Department of Business and Professional Regulation.
M2511 ESE

The parties are hereby notified that they may appeal this
Final Order by filing one copy of a Notice of Appeal with the
Clerk of the Department of Business and Professional Regulation
and by filing one copy of a Notice of Appeal and the appropriate

filing fee with the District Court of Appeal within thirty (30)

days of the date this Final Order is filed.

DONE and ORDERED this 7 day of MMCOILI , 1994.

BOARD OF MED

(GM m

EDWARD A. DAUER, M.
CHAIRMAN

 

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct coﬁy 0f the
foregoing Final Order has been forwarded by U.S. Mail to John R.
Bernardo, Jr., M.D., 281 Nayatt Road, Barrington, Rhode Island
02806 and by hand delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief
Medical Attorney, Department of Business and Professional

Regulation, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida

32399-0792 on this Q31“ day of Mada , 1)“- ,

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,
PETITIONER,
vs. CASE NO. 9313568

JOHN R. BERNARDO, JR., M.D.,

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMINISTRATLVE COMPLAINT

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Business and
Professional Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner,"
and files this Administrative Complaint before the Board of
Medicine against John R. Bernardo, Jr., M.D., hereinafter referred
to as "Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the
practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.165, Florida Statutes;
Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto a
licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0017778. Respondent's last known address is 281
Nayatt Road, Barrington, RI 02806-4029.

3. On or about March 10, 1993, the Rhode Island Board of
Medical Licensure and Discipline filed a disciplinary action in the
form of a Consent Order and Reprimand against Respondent. The
Consent Order was filed as a result of Respondent performing

surgery on a patient without proper consent. The incident involved

uauidU

Respondent repairing a patient's left ignuinal hernia rather than
the consented to repair of a right ignuinal hernia. By signing the
Consent Order, Respondent admitted his guilt and agreed not to
contest the matter.

4. Respondent did not notify the Department of the
disciplinary action taken against him in Rhode Island.

Count On;

5. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through four (4) as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

6. Respondent is guilty of having a license or the authority
to practice medicine revoked, suspended, or otherwise acted
against, including the denial of licensure, by the licensing
authority of any jurisdiction, including its agencies or
subdivisions, in that Respondent was party to a Consent Order filed
by the Rhode Island Board of Medical Licensure and Discipline.

7. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(b), Florida Statutes, and is guilty of having a license
or the authority to practice medicine revoked, suspended, or
otherwise acted against, including the denial of licensure, by the
licensing authority of any jurisdiction, including its agencies or
subdivisions.

Count Two

8. Petitioner realleqes and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

through four (4) and six (6) as if fully set forth herein this

Count Two.

9. Respondent is guilty of failing to report to the board, in
writing, within thirty (30) days if action has been taken against
one’s license to practice medicine in another state, territory, or
country, in that Respondent failed to report in writing to the
Department when action was taken on his license in the state of
Rhode Island.

10. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(kk), Florida Statutes, formerly Section 458.331(1)(11),
Florida Statutes, and is guilty of failing to report to the board,
in writing, within thirty (30) days if action has been taken
against one’s license to practice medicine in another state,
territory, or country.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of
an administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board
deems appropriate. Under the provisions of Section 458.331(3),
Florida Statutes, the Petitioner does not seek revocation or

suspension of the Respondent's license in this matter.

SIGNED this 25’ day of QM , 1993.
F I L E D

Department of Business and Professional Regulation
DHUWluﬂx

George Stuart ecretary

    

Pherson, Jr.
Ch'ef Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Chief Medical Attorney

Department of Business and Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750

Florida Bar #788643

RPC/mry

PCP: October 21, 1993

Murray, Slade, and Varn

 

Z '25]. 71:? SUN

Receipt for
Certi ied Mail

n- No Insurance Coverage Provided

M Do not use for International Mai!
(See Reverse)

56M [0

“A 3’ u do r

Street and ND

P O . Slate and ZIP Code

Postage
Certiﬁed Fee

Snecsal Delivelv Fee
Hesmuea Delivery Fee

Relum Recevpx Showma
lo Wham a. Data Delwered

Return Racevpl Showmg w Whom,
Dana, and Addressae‘s Address

TOTAL Postage
5. Fees

Postmark or Date

m
m
2
.C
2
m
2
o“
O
W
n
E
o
u.
w
n.

 

    
 
  
 

   
  

    

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

   
 

 

 

N.
" SENBE . 5 X g 4 : 'y ‘3 .
\ . A . A - . .
E: ms 1 and/or 2 to: addilinnal services. 3'; 1W gﬂ-m 'LCE'VE "‘3 .
, ems 3, and 4a & b. following services (for an extra 8
2 - Prim yuur name and adgress on the 0'9va :11 this farm so that we can fee)‘ ~-
‘ g retum this card to you." ' E
o‘ . Attach this iorm to the from o! the mailpiece, or on the back if space 1‘ Addressee’s Address
' o s-nol permit. 2
c I Write "Return Receipt Heques‘ed" on the mailpiece heiow the article number‘ - > __
" - The Return Receim will show :0 whom me article was delivered and me da‘e 2‘ Restrictad Dehvery g
g delivemd. Consult postmaster for fee. a
{1-3 3. Article Addressed to: 4a. Articleau ber “:5
b
,1- E J 4 Service Type a
3 t N J“ [M I :1 Insured n
u, 13 Na, ' con .5
m R . a
w eturn Receipt for :5
I: 904 Merchandise ..
g 60(n +0!» ((3: 01’ g e
. =
\ a
E 5. Signature (Addressee) ' g
3 5
|- .=
|—

