 

STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

Final Order No. AHCA-95~Ol7$4 Dnlz “'42 ff

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE FHED
ADMINI STRATION , BOARD OF Agency for Henllh Cm: Adminimnlion
MEDICINE, AGENCY CLERK
.5. Power, Agency Clerk
. . By: 3g gwygﬂ 62$

Pet 1t loner ’ Depuly Agency Clerk

V. CASE NUMBER: 93-07822
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0042167

MOULTON KEANE, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on December 2, 1995 in
Miami, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement (attached
hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the above-
styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent Agreement, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the

Consent Agreement.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Agency.

. 4*“ \,
DONE AND ORDERED thls j£/”"day {ggu;44LQL24 , 1995.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

g%:;u<§L4jM1gﬂadiw« “4‘0—

W E. WINCHESTER, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

QERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Moulton Keane, M.D.,
4101 South Hospital Drive, #1, Plantation, Florida 33317, Maria A.
Santoro, Esquire, 106 East College Avenue, Suite 900, Tallahassee,
Florida 32301 and by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson,
Jr., Chief Medical Attorney, Agency for Health Care Administration,
Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida
32399—0792, at or before 5:00 P.M., this day of

, 1995.

 

HARM M. HARRIS, Ed.D.
Executive Director

cost of quality assurance reviews, and the Board's administrative
costs directly associated with Respondent’s probation.

E. BOARD ADDRESS. Unless otherwise directed by the
Board office, all fines, reports, correspondence and inquiries
shall be sent to: Board of Medicine, 1940 North Henroe Street,
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792, Attn: Final order Compliance
officer.

F. PROBATION TERMS. If probation was imposed by the
Final Order of the Board, the following provisions are applicable.

1. DEFINITIggg:

a. INDIRECT SUPERVISION is supervision by a
monitoring physician (monitor) whose responsibilities are set by
the Board. Indirect supervision does not require that the monitor
practice on the same premises as the Respondent, however, the
monitor shall practice within a reasonable geographic proximity to
Respondent, which shall be within 20 miles unless otherwise
provided by the Board and shall be readily available for
consultation. The monitor shall be Board—certified in the
Respondent's specialty area unless otherwise provided by the Board.

b. DIRECT SUPERVISION is supervision by a
supervising physician (supervisor) whose responsibilities are set

by the Board. Direct supervision requires that the supervisor and

EXHIBIT B

Respondent work in the same office. The supervising physician
shall be board—certified in the Respondent’s specialty area unless
otherwise provided by the Board.

c. PROBATION COMMITTEE or "committee“ are
members of the Board of Medicine designated by the Chairman of the
Board to serve as the Probation Committee.

2. REQUIRED SUPERVISION.

a. If the terms of the consent agreement
include indirect monitoring of the licensees's practice
(MONITORING) or direct monitoring of the licensees practice
(SUPERVISION), the Respondent shall not practice medicine without
an approved monitor/supervisor, as specified by the Consent
Agreement, unless otherwise ordered by the Board.

b. The monitor/supervisor must be a licensee
under Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, in good standing and without
restriction or limitation on his license. In addition, the Board
or Committee may reject any proposed monitor/supervisor on the
basis that he has previously been subject to any disciplinary
action against his medical license in this or any other
jurisdiction, is currently under investigation, or is the subject
of a pending disciplinary action. The monitor/supervisor must be
actively engaged in the same or similar specialty area unless
otherwise provided by the Board or Committee and be practicing
within a reasonable distance of the Respondent’s practice, a
distance of no more than twenty (20) miles unless otherwise
specifically provided for in the consent agreement. The Board or
Committee may also reject any proposed monitor/supervisor for good

cause shown.

c . MECHANISM FOR APPROVAL OF
MONITORz SUPERVISOR:

(1) . TEMPORARY APPROVAL. The Board
confers authority on the Chairman of the Board’s Probation
Committee to temporarily approve Respondent’s monitor/supervisor.
To obtain this temporary approval, Respondent shall submit to the
Chairman of the Probation Committee the name and curriculum vitae
of the propoged monitor/supervisor at the time this agreement is
considered by the Board. Once a Final Order adopting this
Agreeﬁent is tiled, Respondent shall not practice medicine without
an approved monitor/supervisor. Temporary approval shall only
remain in effect until the next meeting or the Probation Committee.

(2). FORMAL APPROVAL. Respondent shall
have the monitor/supervisor with him at his first probation
appearance before the Probation Committee. Prior to consideration
of the monitor/supervisor by the Committee, the Respondent shall
provide to the monitor/supervisor a copy of the Administrative
Complaint and Final Order in this case. Respondent shall submit a
Current curriculum vitae and a description of current practice from
the proposed monitor/supervisor to the Board office no later than
fourteen days before the Respondent’s first scheduled probation
appearance. Respondent’s monitor/supervisor shall also appear
before the Probation Committee at such other times as directed by
the Committee. It shall be Respondent’s responsibility to ensure
that the appearance of his monitor/supervisor as directed. Failure
of the monitor/supervisor to appear as directed shall constitute a
violation of the terms of this Stipulation and shall subject the

Respondent to disciplinary action.

d. CHANGE IN MONITORLSUPERVISOR. In the
event that Respondent's monitor/supervisor is unable or unwilling
to fulfill his responsibilities as a monitor/supervisor as
described above, then the Respondent shall immediately advise the
Board of this fact. Respondent shall immediately submit to the
Chairman of the Board’s Probation Committee the name of a temporary
monitor/supervisor for consideration. Respondent shall not
practice pending approval of this temporary monitor/supervisor by
the Chairman of the Probation Committee. Furthermore, Respondent
shall make arrangements with his temporary monitor/supervisor to
appear before the Probation Committee at its next regularly
scheduled meeting for consideration of the monitor/supervisor by
the Committee. Respondent shall only practice under the auspices'
of the temporary monitor/supervisor (approved by the Chairman)
until the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Probation
Committee whereat the issue of the Committee’s approval of the
Respondent’s new monitor/supervisor shall be addressed.

3. CONTINUITY OF PRACTICE

a. TOLLING PROVISIONS. In the event the
Respondent leaves the State of Florida for a period of thirty days
or more or otherwise does not engage in the active practice of
medicine in the State of Florida, than certain provisions of
Respondent’s probation (and only those provisions of the probation)
shall be tolled as enumerated below and shall remain in a tolled
status until Respondent returns to active practice in the State of

Florida:

(15. The time period of probation shall
be tolled.

(2). The provisions regarding supervision
whether direct or indirect by another physician, and required
reports from the monitor/supervisor shall be tolled.

(3). The provisions regarding preparation
of investigative reports detailing compliance with this Stipulation
shall be tolled.

(4). Any provisions regarding community
service shall be tolled.

b. ACTIVE PRACTICE. In the event that
Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine for a period of
one year or more, the Probation Committee may require Respondent to
appear before the Probation Committee and demonstrate his Ability
to practice medicine with skill and safety to patients prior to

resuming the practice of medicine in this State.

. STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,
PETITIONER,
vs. CASE NO. 9307822

HOULTON KEANE, H.D.,

RESPONDENT.
/

bDHlEIﬁIBAIIYE.§QHELAlHT

COMES Now the Petitioner, Department of Business and
Professional Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner,"
and files this Administrative Complaint before the Board of
Medicine against Moulton Keane, H.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the
practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.165, Florida Statutes;
Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto a
licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number KB 0042167. Respondent’s last known address is 4101
5. Hospital Dr. (I1), Plantation, FL, 33317.

3. Respondent, an obstetrician/gynecologist, provided medical
care at Broward General Medical Center to Patient C.M., a twenty-
five (25) year old female with a history of diabetes, during her

pregnancy in about 1984.

4. On or about November 22, 1992, Respondent testified in
Civil Court, under oath, that no changes, additions, or
falsifications were made by Respondent to Patient C.H.’e medical
records.

5. Medical records copied in or about 1984 of Respondent's
care to Patient C.H. are not identical to the medical records
subsequently obtained by the Department.

6. In testimony in Civil Court on or about November 23, 1992,
Respondent admitted to falsifying Patient C.H.'s medical records to
include statements recommending admission to the hospital that were
not made, to include notations indicating fetal non-stress tests
had been performed that were not performed, and to include notes on
the patient'e history that Respondent had failed to discover prior
to the birth of the patient'e child.

7. Respondent moved from his last know primary place of
practice without listing a current address with the Department, and
cannot be located by the Department.

8. Section 458.319(5), Florida Statutes, states the licensee
must have on file with the Department the address of his primary
place of practice within this state prior to engaging in that
practice. Prior to changing the address of his primary place of
practice, whether of not within this state, the licensee shall
notify the Department of the address of his new primary place of

practice.

w

9. Petitioner realleqes and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through eight (8) as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

10. Respondent is guilty of failing to keep written medical
records justifying the course of treatment of the patient
including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or
administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations, in
that Respondent inappropriately changed, falsified, or added to
Patient C.H.'s medical records.

11. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1) (m) , Florida Statutes, by failing to keep written medical
records justifying the course of treatment of the patient
including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination_
results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or

administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations.

QQQLJT TWO

12. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through eight (8) and ten (10) as if fully set forth herein this
Count Two.

13. Respondent is guilty of making deceptive, untrue, or
fraudulent representations in or related to the practice of
medicine or employing a trick or scheme in the practice of

medicine, in that Respondent inappropriately Changed, falsified, or

added to Patient C.H.'s medical records, and testified, under oath,
that no such changes were made.

14. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(k), Florida Statutes, by making deceptive, untrue, or
frauduient representations in or related to the practice of
medicine or employing a trick or scheme in the practice of
medicine.

QQHHI_IHBEE

15. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through eight (8), ten (10), and thirteen (13) as if fully set
forth herein this Count Three.

16. Respondent is guilty of violating any provision of this
chapter, a rule of the board or department, or a lawful order of
the board or department previously entered in a disciplinary L
hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully issued subpoena of the
department, in that Respondent moved from his last known primary
place of practice without notifying the Department of his current
address, contrary to Section 458.319(5), Florida Statutes.

17. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(x), Florida Statutes, by violating any provision of this
\ chapter, a rule of the board or department, or a lawful order of
the board or department previously entered in a disciplinary
hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully issued subpoena of the

department.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: permanent revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s
license, restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board
deems appropriate.

SIGNED this ﬂy day of ﬁg , 1994.

George Stuart, cretary

      
   

 

arry . herson, Jr.
Chi Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Chief Medical Attorney

Department of Business and Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750

Florida Bar l#733643 F | L E D

RPC/mlf ' deuﬁwm|MgmaWn
. nmenm Busmess an
PCP . MaICh 16 , 1994 Dean “PU” CLERK

Murray and Slade
cuRK/g/Wd‘m4" z L“
37,32,211...—
DAVE

STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE
ADMINISTRATION,

Petitioner,

V. AHCA CASE NO. 93—07822

MOULTON KEANE, H.D,,

Respondent.

 

CONSENT AGREEHEEI

Moulton Keane, M.D., referred to as the "Respondent," and the
Agency for Health Care Administration, referred to as "Agency,"
-stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and to the entry of
a Final order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as "Board,":
incorporating the stipulated Facts and stipulated Disposition in
this matter.

STIPULATED FACTS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed
physician in the State of Florida, having been issued license
number ME 0042167.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Agency and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules
enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the
Administrative Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of
fact contained in the Administrative Complaint.

1

STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458,
Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Agency and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the attached
Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute violations of
Chapters 455 and 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the
Administrative Complaint.

ETIPULATED DISPOSITION

1. FUTURE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the future
violate Chapters 455, 458, and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto. Prior to signing this agreement, the
Respondent read Chapters 455, 458, and 893 and the Rules of the
Board of Medicine in Section 59R, Florida Administrative Code.

2. glﬂﬁ. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in
the amount of $2,000.00 against the Respondent. The fine shall be
paid by the Respondent to the Board of Medicine within sixty (60)
days of its imposition by Final Order of the Board. THE RESPONDENT
ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE TIMELY PAYMENT OF THE FINE IS HIS/HER LEGAL
OBLIGATION AND RESPONSIBILITY AND THE RESPONDENT AGREES TO CEABE
PRACTICING IF THE FINE IS NOT PAID AS AGREED TO IN THIS CONSENT
AGREEMENT, SPECIFICALLY: I? THE RESPONDENT HAS NOT RECEIVED
WRITTEN CONFIRMATION THAT THE FULL AMOUNT OF THE FINE HAS BEEN
RECEIVED BY THE BOARD OFFICE WITHIN 60 DAYS OF THE FILING OF THIS
FINAL ORDER, THE RESPONDENT AGREES TO CEASB PRACTICE UNTIL SUCH

WRITTEN CONFIRMATION IS RECEIVED BY THE RESPONDENT FROM THE BOARD.

(BEE EXHIBIT 3, PARAGRAPH 1 OF THIS CONSENT AGREEMENT FOR BOARD
ADDRESS AND STANDARD TERMS) .

3. REPRIMAND. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand from
the Board of Medicine.

4. PROBATION. Effective on the date of the filing of the
Final Order incorporating the terms of this Agreement, Respondent’s
license to practice medicine shall be placed on probation for a
period of one (1) year.

5. OBLIGATIONSLREQUIREMENTS OF PROBATION. During the period
of probation, Respondent shall comply with the foilowing
obligations and requirements:

i. Respondent shall appear before the Probation
Committee of the Board of Medicine at the first Committee meeting-
after probation commences, at the last meeting of the Committee
preceding scheduled termination of the probation, and at such other
times as requested by the Committee. Respondent shall be noticed
by the Board staff of the date, time and place of the Committee
meeting whereat Respondent’s appearance is required. Failure of
Respondent to appear as requested or directed shall be considered
a violation of the terms of this Agreement, and shall subject the
Respondent to disciplinary action.

ii. CONTINUING MEDICAL EDUCATION. During the
probation period Respondent shall attend fifteen (15) hours of
Category I Continuing Medical Education courses in the area of
medical ethics, risk management, and medical record keeping.

Respondent shall submit a written plan to the Chairman of the

Probation Committee for course approval prior to the completion of
said courses. In eddition, Respondent shall submit documentation
of completion of these courses in his required reports. These
hours shall be in addition to those hours required for renewal of
licensure. Unless otherwise approved by the Board or the Chairman
of the Probation Committee, said courses shall consist of a formal
live lecture format.

iii. QQMMUNITY SERVICE. During the probation
period Respondent shall perform 100 hours of community service.
Community service shall consist of the delivery of medical services
directly to patients, without fee or cost to the patient, for the
good of the people of the State of Florida. Such community service

shall be performed outside the Respondent’s regular practice

setting. Respondent shall submit a written plan for performance - n

and completion of the community service to the Probation Committee
for approval prior to performance of said community service.
Affidavits detailing the completion of community service
requirements shall be filed with the Board quarterly.

6. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject
to the approval of the Board and the Agency. In this regard, the
foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs) shall have
no force and effect unless a Final Order incorporating the terms of
this Agreement is entered by the Board.

7. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting of
the Board where this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in

conjunction with the consideration of this Agreement by the Board,

shall respond to questions under oath from the Board, Board staff
or Agency staff whereby he demonstrates what actions have been
taken in his medical practice to insure that this type of episode
does not reoccur.

8. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by Respondent may be used as direct
evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding; however, such
statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment purposes.

9. Respondent and the Agency fully understand that this joint
agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will in no
way preclude additional proceedings against Respondent for acts or
omissions not specifically set forth in the Administrative
Complaint attached as Exhibit "A" herein.

10. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreement, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps, and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Agreement.

11. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will bear his own attorney’s fees and
costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney’s fees or costs
from the Agency in connection with this matter.

12. This agreement is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to

this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to

review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the
Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by
the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or
any of its members from further participation, consideration, or

resolution of these proceedings.

11/52/1395 18:44 3855847836 |

4w I

an. urn In on u: 50
T51!

DR VUJLTDN KEANE MD PAGE 82

 
  

      

I

  
 

"alum um.

 

}
l
l
I

11/02/95 10:51 ’I‘X/Bji K0.0499 P.C02 .

STANDARD TERMS APPLICABLE TO CONSENT AGREEMENTS

The following are the standard terms applicable to all consent
agreements, including supervision and monitoring provisions
applicable to licensees on probation.

A. PAYMENT OF FINES. Unless otherwise directed by the
consent agreement, all fines shall be paid by check or money order
and sent to the Board address set forth in paragraph E, below. The
Board office does not have the authority to change the terms of
payment of any fine imposed by the Board.

B. COMMUNITY SERVICE AND CONTINUING EDUCATION UNITS.
Unless otherwise directed by the consent agreement, all community
service requirements, continuing education units/courses must be
completed, and documentation of such completion submitted to the
Board of Medicine at the address set forth below in paragraph E,
WITHIN ONE YEAR OF THE DATE OF THE FINAL ORDER.

C. ADDRESSES. Respondent must keep current residence
and practice addresses on file with the Board. Respondent shall
notify the Board within ten (10) days of any changes of said
addresses. Furthermore, if the Respondent’s license is on
probation, the Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (10)
days in the event that Respondent leaves the active practice of
medicine in Florida.

D. COSTS. Pursuant to Section 458.331(2), Florida
Statutes, the Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply
with the terms of this Consent Agreement. Such costs include, but
are not limited to, the costs of preparation of Investigative
Reports detailing compliance with the terms of the Consent

Agreement, obtaining supervision or monitoring of the practice, the

