STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,

Petitioner,

v, DBPR CASE NOS. 9302657,
9316019,
9316162 &
9316166

EDWARD R. POPICK, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

VOLUNTARY RELINQUISHMENT OF LICENSE

 

To avoid the necessity of further administrative proceedings
in thisA case, the Respondent herein files this vo;untary
relinquishment of his license to practice as a medical doctor in
the State of Florida, with the provision that the Respondent agrees
never again to apply for licensure as a medical doctor in the State
of Florida.

In this regard, Respondent waives a finding of probable cause
so that the Board of Medicine may consider this matter.

When relinquishments are offered to the Board of Medicine to
avoid furthe; administrative prosecution, this is considered to be
disciplinary action against your license to practice medicine in
the State ef Florida. As such, any and all disciplinary actions
taken Ly the Board of Medicine are reported to the Federation of
State Meéical Boards and the National Practitioner’s Data Bank.

Upon the Board’s adoption of this Relinquishment, Respondent

expressly waives all further procedural steps, and expressly waives

all further procedural steps, and expressly waives all rights to
seek judicial review of or to otherwise Challenge or contest the
validity of the Relinquishment and the Final Order of the Board
incorporating said Relinquishment.

Upon the Board’s adoption of this Relinquishment, the parties
hereby agree that each party will bear his own attorney’s fees and
costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney's fees or costs
from the Department in connection with this matter.

This Relinquishment is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the
Relinquishment. Furthermore, should this Relinquishment not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Relinquishment and other documents and
matters by the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice this
Board of any of its members from further participation,
consideration or resolution of these proceedings.

. 414 _
DATED this V(c day of R bfuar , 1999.

x. L q

Edward R. Popick, M.D.

' . \
Before me, personally appeared ii>(- ikiﬁ-eggj V59 (,K
whose identity is known to me by _j:rLdi4' vquiS?
(type of identification) and who, under oath, acknowledges that
his/hep signature appears above.

2 _ w(
Sworn to and subs ibed by Respondent before me this [/— ’ day of
[Lnful'fff't‘ ., l9 .

         

1' _ /
(-47 e‘4/-1(Lcl—u(
Notary Public

My Commission Expires: "?mxmmmn
MY owwssm momma

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,

PETITIONER,

vs. CASE NO. 9302657

EDWARD R. POPICK, M.D.,

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

 

COMES Now the Petitioner, Department of Professional
Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner,“ and files this
Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine againet
EdwardIL ¥opick, M.D. hereinafter referred to as "Respondent," ane
alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.30, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0023855. Respondent's last known address is 5783
49th Street N, St. Petersburg, Florida 33709.

3;;‘ On or about March 4, 1993 Pinellas County Sheriff's
deputies Served a search warrant at Respondent's office as a part
of a police investigation of Respondent’s questionable prescribing

practices.

4. During their investigation, the officers discovered that
many of Respondent’s prescriptions for controlled substances were
being picked up at a local Albertson’s pharmacy by Anthony
Ferrentino, a suspected drug dealer.

5. Pursuant to the search warrant, the officers were
searching for medical records and prescriptions of Patients #1 and
#2, among other items.

6. Records for Patient #1 and Patient #2 were found in a
locked safe and away from the active patient files. Respondent
possessed the only key to this safe. Currency in $45.00 increments
was found paper—clipped to the files of Patients #1 and #2, as well
as the prescriptions Respondent had written for these patients:.

7. Records obtained from Albertson’s pharmacy in Seminole,
Florida ihdicate that Respondent has been regularly prescribing
Dilaudid, Valium, or both to Patients #1 and #2 since at least
January 1991.

8. Valium is a legend drug as defined by Section 465.003(7),
Florida Statutes, and contains diazepam, a benzodiazepine
tranquilizer and a Schedule IV controlled substance listed in
Chapter 893, Florida Statutes.

9. Dilaudid (hydromorphone hydrochloride) is a legend drug
as defined by Seetioh 465.003(7), Florida Statutes, and contains
hydromorphone, a Schedule II controlled substance listed in Chapter
893, Flprida Statutes. Hydromorphone is an opiate narcotic

analgesic and' a derivative of morphine. Hydromorphone has a

potential for addiction and abuse similar to that of morphine and

other opium derivatives.

FACTS PERTAINING TO PATIENT #1

10. Between on or about January 11, 1991 through December 16,
1992 Respondent prescribed two thousand four hundred (2400)
Dilaudid tablets and one thousand eight hundred (1800) Valium
tablets to Patient #1.

11. Patient #1 asserted in March 1993 that he/she had been
prescribed Dilaudid by Respondent in the past, but stated that
he/she had not seen Respondent for two (2) years and had not picked
up any prescriptions of Dilaudid between March 1991 and December
1992.

12. A Respondent’s records for Patient #1 essentially and oh
March 9, 1991. Despite this, Respondent continued to prescribe
Dilaudid and Valium to Patient #1 on a monthly basis.

13. Respondent wrote fraudulent prescriptions for Patient #1
from March 1991 through December 1992, in that Respcndent
prescribed Dilaudid to Patient #1, who neither received the

medication nor presented to Respondent during the same period.

COUNT ONE
14. Petitioner realleées and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through;thirteen (13) as if fully set forth herein this Count One.
15. ~Respondent made deceptive, untrue, or fraudulent

representations in or related to the practice of medicine in that

Respondent: continued to prescribe Dilaudid under Patient #l’s
name for two years when Respondent knew someone other than Patient
#1 was receiving the medication and when Respondent had not seen
Patient #1 since March 1991.

16. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondert has
violated Section 458.331(1)(k), Florida Statutes, by making
deceptive, untrue, or fraudulent representations in or related to
the practice of medicine or employing a trick or scheme in the
practice of medicine.

COUNT TWO

17. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through thirteen (13) and fifteen (15) as if fully set forth nerein
this Count Two.

18. ARespondent inappropriately prescribed a legend drug othet
than in the course of his professional practice in that Respondent:
prescribed Dilaudid to Patient #1 for two years without records
justifying that prescription; and prescribed Dilaudid to Patient #1
for two years without examining Patient #1; and prescribed Dilaudid
under Patient #1’5 name when he knew someone other than the Patient
was receiving the drugs.

19. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent has
violated Section 458:331(1)(q), Florida Statutes, by prescribing,
dispensing, administering, hixing, or otherwise preparing a legend
drug, including any controlled substance, other than in the course
of the physician’s professional practice. For the purposes of this

paragraph, ‘it shall be legally presumed that prescribing,

dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing legend
drugs, including all controlled substances, inappropriately or in
excessive or inappropriate quantities is not in the best interest
of the patient and is not in the course of the physician’s

professional practice, without regard to his intent.

FACTS PERTAINING TO PATIENT #2

20. Between on or about January 15, 1991 and January 20, 1993
Respondent prescribed two thousand five hundred seventy eight
(2578) Dilaudid tablets and one thousand seven hundred (1700)
Valium tablets to Patient #2.

21. Patient #2 asserts he/she has not seen Respondent sihqe
early 1990, and has not received or picked up any prescriptiohs
from Respgndent since early 1990. =

22. Respondent’s office records have detailed accounts of
Patient #2’5 periodic examinations through September 17, 1991,
despite the fact that Patient #2 had not seen Respondent for over
a year.

23. Respondent has fabricated records for Patient #2,
beginning on December 7, 1990 and continuing through September 17,
1991, and has written Dilaudid and Valium prescriptions based on
the falsified diagnbées and examinations in these records.

24. Respondent has cohtinued to prescribe Dilaudid and Valium
to Patient #2 through January 20, 1993, with no records to support

or justify this prescription, and without examining Patient #2.

COUNT THREE

25. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through nine (9) and twenty (20) through twenty—four (24) as if
fully set forth herein this Count Three.

26. Respondent made deceptive, untrue, or fraudulent
representations in or related to the practice of medicine in that
Respondent: fabricated records of office visits and examinations
of Patient #2 from December 7, 1990 through September 17, 1991;
recorded falsified diagnoses and treatments for Patient #2 for the
same period; and prescribed Dilaudid and Valium under Patient #2’5
name when Respondent knew someone other than Patient #2 was
receiving the drugs.

27. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent has
violated ASection 458.331(1)(k), Florida Statutes, by making
deceptive, untrue, or fraudulent representations in or related to
the practice of medicine or employing a trick or scheme in the
practice of medicine.

COUNT FOUR

28. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through nine (9), twenty (20) through twenty—four (24) and twenty-
six (26) as-if fully set forth herein this Count Four.

29. Respondent inappropriately prescribed a legend drug other
than in the course of his professional practice in that Respondent:
continued to prescribe Dilaudid and Valium to Patient #2 when
Respondent had not seen or examined Patient #2 in over a year;

prescribed 'Dilaudid and Valium under Patient #2'5 name when

Respondent knew someone other than Patient #2 was receiving the
drugs; preséribed Dilaudid and Valium to Patient #2 without records
to support or justify the prescription from September 1991 through
January 20, 1993.

30. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent has
violated Section 458.33l(l)(q), Florida Statutes, by prescribing,
dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing a legend
drug, including any controlled substance, other than in the course
of the physician’s professional practice. For the purposes of this
paragraph, it shall be legally presumed that prescribing,
dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing legend
drugs, including all controlled substances, inappropriately or in
excessive or inappropriate quantities is not in the best intereet
of the ogtient and is not in the course of the physician's
professional practice, without regard to his intent.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license,
restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this 7 day of

FILED

Department of Pfofessional Regulation
DEPUTY CLE “

1993.

 

 

Chi f Medical Attorney

   

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Chief Medical Attorney

Department of Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750
Florida Bar #788643

LGM/hrb

PCP: June 5, 1993

Rodriguez and Murray

