 

@6363

STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE RUMIHISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDXCINE

FimHOum No myﬂm anujggﬁ‘i

    

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE mm,
ADMINISTRATION, BOARD OF ‘Cmv Amninkslrm'mn
MEDICINE,
Petitioner,
v. CASE NUMBER: 93“16517
93—22397
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0047234

SYDEL Y. BARNES, M.D.

Respondent.

/

 

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Beard) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on September 30, 1994 in
Coral Gables, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in
the above—styled case“ Upon consideration of the Consent
Agreement, the documents submitted in support thereof, the
argumentg of the parties, and being otherwise advised in tha
premises, the Board rejected the Consent Agrdement praposed and
offered an amendment at the hearing, which amendment was accepted
withuut objection by the parties.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein with. the: amendments as followed:

1. Paragraph 3 of the stipulated Disposition is deleted.

2. Paragraph 4 of the stipulated Disposition shall be
amended to reflect that Respondent’s Quality Assurance Consultation

shall be completed within ninety (90) days of the filing of the

   

 

 

Final Order in this cause.

Accordingly, the parties shall adhere to and abide by all af
the terms and conditions of the Consent Agreement, a5 amended.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Agency.
0 .
DONE AND ORDERED this 1,4,] day A} @L'fﬁ/m ﬁg: _____ , 3994"

c? 659%)in

EDWARD A. BAUER, M D.
CHAIRMAN

mﬂmgmmwmm
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct mopy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Sydel Y. Barne$, M,D.
2605 N. Howard Avenue, Tampa, Florida 33607, and by interoffice
dalivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical Attorney, Agency
for Health Care Administration, Northwood Centre, 1940 North Monroe
Street, Tallahassee, Flcrida 32399¢0792, at 0r befnre 5: 00 P. M.,

this _‘_m_ day of , 1994M

HARM W," HKRRIS, €5.23.
Execusive Direator

1icensee’3 primary place of practica within this state pricr t9
engaging in that practice.
0mm 2m:
13. Petitioner realleqea and incorporatas paragraphs ans (1)
through twelve (12) as if fully set forth herein this Count One“

‘ 14. Reﬁpondent 15 guilty of violating any pravision of this
chapter, a rule at the board or department, or a lawful order at
the board or éepartment previously entered in a disciplinary
hearing or failing to camply with a lawfully igsued subpwena of thﬁ
department, in that Respondent: continued to use staff privileges

at Mariner’s Haspitai without establishing financial

H.

resgcnsib lity, ccﬁtrary t0 Section $58,320(2), Flcrida Statﬁtea,
and Section 458.320(4), Florida Statutes; failed to natify the
board of the expiratian of her professional insurance cmverage,‘
contrary to Rule 61F6—40.005(3); failed to notify the department of
the change in her primary place of practice, contrary to Section
$58.319(5), Florida Statutes.

15.“ Based On the foregoing, Respondeﬂt violated section
458.331(l)(x), Florida Statutes, and is guilty of violating any
prmvision of this chapter, a rule at the board or departmant, 0x a
lawful order of the board or deyartment previougly enterad in a
éisciplinary hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully issued
subpmena of the department.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of

Medicine enter an Ordar imp0$ing one or more of the follawing

penalties: permanent revocation or suspension of the Raspondent's

 

 

 

  
  

  
   
   
  
  
 
   
  
   
   
    

liganse, resﬁriction at the Raspandent’s gractica, impusition cf an

aaministrativa fine, issuance 5f a reprimand, p13 cement cf the

Raspendent on probation, and/or any othar relief that the Baarﬁ

deems apprcpriate.

SIGNED this .1221 day of _

 

.mﬁ».“~2 139%.
secretary
. V ‘ m__ (~m

arr G. 'cPhexson, Jr.

Chiff Medical Attnrney
CQUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:
Larky G. McPherson, Jr.
Chief Medical Attornay
Department of Business and Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32399~0750 ‘ E E)
Florida Bar #788643 F i L » ‘
RPC/mry Department of Bwnm and Pmiassioml Regulatmn

PCP: January 21, 1994

DWUWYCHRK
Murray, Slade and Vern

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFES3IONAL REGULATION,
PETITIONER,
VS. CASE NO. 93'22397
SYDEL Y. BARNES; MaDK,

RESPONDENT .
,W__,_,_J

Wlﬁlﬁﬁl‘mﬁgﬂﬁﬁlﬂ

COMES now the Petitioner, Department of Businasg amﬂ

 

Professional Regulation, hereinafter: raferred to as "Patitirmerﬂ‘
and files this Administrative Ccmplaint before the Bqard of
Medicine against sydel Y. Barnes, N.De, hereinafter referred to am
"Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner 11$ the state agency charged with regulating the
practice of medicine pursuant to Sectian 20.165, Florida Statutem;
Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and chapter 458, Florida statuteg.

2. ' Respondent is: and has been at; all times material herein.) a
licensed physicizm in the state of Flurida, having been ismxec!
license numbei’ ME 0047234. Raspondent's last: known address is 10.0.,
Box 4238, Tampa, FL 33677.

3. Respondent closed her mediczal practice in Key Lazgm
Florida on or about September 1, 1993.

4. Respondent published an editorial in the local newspaper

on or about September 9, 1993, concerning closing her practicee, but

the editorial did not explain to patients how they could receive

   

copiaa of tneir-medical records, the date the practica was ta b8
closed, or that the patient had a right t9 receive thair medicaﬁ
recorda as required by Rule 61F6—26.002(4), Flcrida Administrative
Ccde.

5. Rgspondent sent her patients a letter on or abcut Gctuher
21, 1993, approximately six weeks after her practice was cleseﬂ,
but the letter also does not advise the patients cf their right ta
receive copies of their medical recoxds.

6. Patient S.A.G. attempted tn reach Respondent in S&ptembar
0r Octcber for a flu shot and ta refill a prescription, but could
mat locate Respondent and could not find a notice for referral tn
ancther doctor"

7. Patient S.A.G. lacated a farmar employee of Responﬁent,
wko gave her Responéent’s number in Tampa, Flerida, and the §atient
called Respondent to obtain a copy of her madical rmcarda. Th6
patient left several messageg, but did not receive a cupy 9f her
records. After filing a comglaint with the Department, the patient
re¢eivad a copy of her records.

8. Rﬁle 61F6«26.002(4), Florida A&minﬁstrative Code, requires

a physician terminating his or her medical practice to publish, in

a lccal newspaper that serves the physiﬁian’s practice area, a
notice which contains the date of terminatiwn, and an adﬁresa at
which the patient medical records can be obtaineﬁ. The physician
is also required to place in a conspicuous locatien or on part of
the physician's office, a sign announcing the termination cf the

physician’s practice. The sign must be placed at least thirty daya

 

 

prior tn the cibsing of the practice and must remain in piaca until
the terminaéien 0f the practice. En addition, the notice in tha
newspaper and the sign must notify patients af their righﬁ km
trangfer or receive their records.

9. Respondent did not comply with Rule 61F5-26‘002ia),
Florida Administrative Cade, in that Respondént aid not publish
information in tha local newspaper notifying her patients of the
date of termination of her medical practice, their right to thair
medical records, and how thosa record$ could be abtaineé.

10. Respondent did not comply with Rule 61F6~263002(d),
Fiarida Administrative Cade, in that Resyandent ﬂid not placa a
sign at her office announcing the termination of her practice and
notifying her patients of their right to receive theiz mguiaal
records thirty (30) days before her practice waa elosed.

11. Section 455.241(1), Florida Statutes, requiraa any health
care practitioner to provide medical records to a patient in a
timely manner when requested to do go.

12. Respondent violateé Section 455.241(1), Florida Statutes,
by failiné to provide medical records to Patient S.A.G. in a timaly
manner.

QQBnﬁwQEQ

13. Petitioner realleges and incorpawates paragraphs one (1)
through twelve (12) as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

14. Respondant is guilty of violating a rule of the board or
department, in that Respondent violated Rule 61F6m26a002(4),

Florida Administrative Code.

 

15. Based am ﬁne foregoing, Respondent violateﬂ Sectian

458.331(1)(x), Florida Statutes, and is guilty af violating &ny
provision of this chapter, a rule of the heard at departmentF 9r a
lawful order of the board or department previou$1y entered in a
disciplinary hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully issueé
subpoena of the department.

92EE&WZ!&

16. Petitioner reallege$ and incorparates paragraphs one (13
through twelve (12) and fourteen (14) as if fully set forth herain
this Count Two.

17. Respondent is guilty of failing to perform any statutcry
or legal obligation piaced upon a licensed physician, in that
Respondent violated Section 455.2d1(1), Florida Stat ;&$, by
failing to provide patient records in a timely manner.

18. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
453.331(1)(q), Florida Statutes, and is guilty 0f failing to
perfarm any statutory or legal abligation placed upon a licensed

physician_

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Baarﬁ af
Eadicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the fcllowing
penalties: permanent revccation or suspenﬁion of the Re3pondent's
license, restriction of the Respondent's practice, impositinn of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Reﬁpondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board.

deems appropriate.

 

 

P
smxathms ﬁg day of w %x% _____ , 19%.

George Stu (E

 
  

- ers‘on, ' e
Chi .f Medical At: orney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. MCFherson, 3r.

Chief Medical Attorney

Department of Business and Prnfessional Regulatian
1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee Florida 32399-0792

Florida Bar'788643 F 5 L‘ E E}

RPC/mlf - - atlon
, . mmmnt ﬁt Mam and Pmassxml Raga!

?CP. Aprll 20, 1994 AGENCVCLERK

Murray and Varn

CW gww 3’ QM»;

mewﬁwﬂ...“

5

 

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DBPBRTMENT 0? BUSINESQ ARE PRGFESSIONAL REGULRTIOK

DEFARTMENT 0F EUSINEBB AKD
PROFESSIONAL REGULATIDH,

Patitionar,

DEER GAQE N03. QBWléﬁl?
93*223§7

BYDEL Y» BARNESy “.8.

Respondent.

WW._WW__‘_MMI

QONSENT RGREEEENT
Sydel Y. Barnes, MED., referred to as the “RespondentN ﬁnd
the Department of Busine$$ and Profe$sional Regulation, referreﬂ ta
as "Department," stipulate and agree to the following Agreement ﬂhﬁ
to the entry of'a Final Order of the Board of Mediaine. referrea ta
as “Board," incorporating ‘the stipulated Facts and Stipulataﬂ
Disposition in this matter.
. SELREQEHELiﬁgiﬁ
1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensaé
physician in the State of Florida having been isauad license number
ME 004?234.
2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondant with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida statutes, and the rules enacted

pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative

Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

. ‘ v :viﬁ‘..7,'_=.an.r

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations cf
fact contair‘med in the Administrative Cozplaint.
ﬂIEUMIED CONMQEMLQE
1. Respcmdent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, he is subject to the provisicns of Chapters 455 anti 458,
Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department and the

Board .

 

2.. R9$pondenc admits that the facts seﬁ: forth in {ma
Administrative Camplaint, if proven, woulci constitute violations of

Chapter 458, Floxida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative

 

Complaint.
QIPUXJATED BIS_P_O_SITIQ_H
1. Wu Resgondent aim”, not in the future

violate Chapters 455, 458 and 893, Florida statutes, m: the rules

 

pramulgatad putsuant theretu. Prior: to signing this agreement, the
Respondent read Chapters 455, 458 and 693 and the Rules of the;
Board of Medicine, at Sectian 61%, Florida Administrative Code.
2. ELEL The anrd shall impose an administrative fine in
the amount‘ of $2,000.00 against the Respondent. ?he fine shall be
paid by the Respondent tr: the Board of Medicine within 120 days of
‘5: its imposition by Final Order at the Board.
3. QWJQ.‘ The Respondent shall receiv a reprimand from

the Board of Medicine.

4. QlibLITYﬁﬁﬁQBAEQEﬁQNSULVTATIQEL An independent, certified

risk manager will review Respondent's current practice priar to the

Board's consideration of this Agreement and one (1) year from the

n

 

date of the filing of the Final Order. Speciﬁisally, this
independent I consulkant shall review each type 0f pxacedura
performed by Respondent, the training and duties of Raspondentﬁs
medical staff, and Respondent‘s method of record keeping. Far both
reviews, this consultant will prepare a report; addressing
Resyondent’s practice. These reports will include 51,1gqested
improvement5 of the quality assurance of Respondent’s practiae.
Respondent will submit the first report, as well as documentation
that demonstrates her cemyliance with the auggestisns enumersted in
the report, to the Board far coxmideration in conjunction with this
Agreement, and the second report within one month of the seccnd
rewiew.

5.. gm; within one (1) year of the filing cf the final,
Order incoxporating the terms of this Agreament, Respondent shall
attend 10 hourspf Category I Continuing Medical. Educatian in 315};
Management. Respondent shall submit a writtan plan to the Chairman
of the Probationer's Committee for approval prior t0 the completion
of said continuing education hours. The Board confers authority on
the Chairﬁtan of the Probationer’s Committee to apprave or
disapprove said continuing education hcurs. in addieion;
Regpondent shall submit documentation in the form cf certifiéd
copies of the receipts, vouchers, certifi rates, or other papers,
such as physician’s recognition awards, documenting completion of
these medical education courses within one (1) year of the entry of
the Final Order in thig matter. All such documentatiqg SELL be

ignt gg the ﬁgard of n‘edicmehgegggdlggs of whether _s_a_mg_or angi

 

 

 

 

 

 

gmﬂmﬁgﬂmuas l.‘___._€Vi°U~5l¥_B§2YAQM.LiMM£BI§§Jf—§ﬂx
mﬂmmmmgmnmw;en_mﬁmmg-mmwsg¢ Theme hours»:
shall be in additioh to thuse hours required for renewal of
licensurav Unless otherwise approved by the Board, said continuing
medical education courses shall consist of a formal, live lecture
format.

6‘ It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject
to the approval of the Baard and the Department. In this regard,
the fotegeing paragraphs (and only the foregeing paragraphs) shall
hava no fcrce and effect unlegs a Final Order incorporating tha
terms of this Agreement is entered by the Board.

7. Respondent shall appear before the anrd at the meating 0f
the Board where this Agreement is congidered. Respondent€ in
conjunction with the cmnsideration of this Agraament by the Board,
shall respond to quastions under oath from the Board, Buard Staff
0: Department Staff. The Respondent shall be prepared to explain
the circumstances involved in this matter and what measures have
been taken to prevent a recurrence. The Respondent shall also be
prapared {o answer questions demonstrating kncwledqe of tha
substance of any of the laws or rules of Chapters #55, 458, 893 and
Rule 61F6.

8. should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by the Respondent may be used as
direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding; however,

such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment

purpases.

 

  

9. Raqundent and the. Departmenﬁ fully understand that". this;

joint Agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will

in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board and/cr mm

Degartment against the Respondent for actts or omissions not

specifimlly set forth in the Administrative Camplaint attached as

Exhibit A herein.

10. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement; Respcndaa:

expressly waives all furthar pro¢edural steps and expressly waivas

all rights to seek judicial review of 0r to otherwise: challenge cw

csantest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order uf the

Baara incorporating said Agreement.

11: Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, the: partias

hereby agree that each party will bear nia own attorney’s fees; and

costs resulting from prosecution 0r defense of this matten

Respcmdent waives the right ta seek any attorney's fees at crmta
fxom the Bepartment in connectian with this matter.

12* This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the

puryqsa of avoiding further administrative action with respaet to

this cause.’ In this regard, Respondent: authorizes, the. Edam: tn

review and examine all investigative file materials concerning

Reapondant prior to or in conjunction with consideration of thee

Agreement. Furthermore, should this jo'nt Agreement not be

accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation (:0 and

consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by

the Board shall not: unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or

any of its members from further participation, monsidaratimn or

     
    
  
  
    
  
  
    
  
      
    
  
   
    
  
  
 
  

resolutian cf thésa proceading§4

   

.‘ B&fOZ‘S me p

perscnally appearad ‘Sga'w Qﬁwﬁgw K.”
whoga idantity 1% known ta mg by gﬁfsgngwl 5 agggggkm::(type 5?

f iﬂentificatian) and who, under 0 2., ac me edgaa that his/h&w

3 aignatura appears abave.

} Swa°n to and Subscribad bafore ma hhis W33 :Lm day af

f3 WILW‘W 1994' “"“

 

My ccmmiasion Expire&:

32W.“ WWE-
WGMNMWM¢QWMW
KMnNN 1-: «w

59mm! buy Ma
0004152“ .

 

appmvm this Q: (:3 day of W Ag; ¢ka m‘
Sacretiﬁy
ﬂ/

 

   

y G. . $QnLk§;;;7
Ch'ef Attorney

M dical Section

Za‘d Mbﬁd HCIJ.J.-’.'l'¢1

 

3!

3n; v$w9£~wnw

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
' BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,
PETITIONER,
V$. CASE NO. 93~16517
SYDBL Y. BARNES, M.D.,

RESPONDENT.

w____»_/

ADMINLﬁIﬂgTIVE congggggx

CQMES NOW the Petitioner, Department cf Business and

Professional Regulaticn, hereinaftnr r&féfréd to as “Petitioner,“

and files this Administrative Complaint before tha Boarﬁ of
Medicine against Sydel Y. Barnes, N.D(, hereinafter referred ta as
"Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitiwner is the state agency charged with regulating the
practice of medicine pursuant to section 20.165, Floriaa Statutes;
Chapter $55, Florida Statutes; and ChaptP? 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all time5 material hexato a
licensed phys$cian in the State of Flarida, having been 189%ﬂﬁ
liaensa number ME 00472349 Respondent'3 last known addr%s3 i5 8372
7th Avenue, Miami, Florida 33150.

3. On or about January 1, 1993, Respondent’s professional

insurance coverage expired.
4. Respondent failed to renew or maintain professional

insurance coverage after an or about January 1, 1993.

 

5. Respondant cantinueé to use staff privileges at Marinar’s
Hospital by admittiﬁg patients to the hospital between on or about.
January 1, 1993 and on or about April, 1993‘

6. Section 458.320(2), Florida Statutes, stateg, in parﬁ,
that in order ta maintain hospital staff privilages, physicians
muﬁt establish financial raﬁpnnsihility with an ascrow accctmta
ﬁrstessional liability insurance, or an irrevccable lettar of
credit.

?. Section 458.320(4), Florida Etatuces, states, in part,
that, under cartain conéitions, physicians can became exempt fram
tha requirements of Section 458.320(2), Florida Statutes.

80 Re=pondent did nnt meet the conditiong Cutlined in Secﬁisn
458.320(4), Florida Statutes, and therefore is nah exempt frvm the
requirements of Section 458.320(2}, Flerida Statutes.

9. Respohdent did not notify the board upon tha expiration of
her profesgional in$urance coverage On or about January L, 1923»

10. Rule 61F6~40.005{3), Florida Administrative ﬁade,
fcrmerly Rule 21M-40.005f3), Florida Administrate Code, states that
each licensee must notify the board in writing oﬁ any change Of
$tatus relating to financial respensibility compliance 0r exampticn
at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the change.

11. Respondent changed her primary place ox practice uithont
notifying the department or the new location.

12. Section 458.319t5), Florida Statutes, states that tha

licensee must have on file with the department the address of thé

 

 

