 

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
BOARD OF MEDICINE

FlHBIOMm Nu. DOH—Q‘F-OZ-lu Dan: lZ- I“? ‘17
FILED
szanmcnt of Heulm
AGENCYCLERK

. _ ~ q \ _ .
p uijmwwn
- etl loner, 9|):qu Agency C] 1!:

DE PAR TMENT OF HEALTH,

 

VS. CASE NO. : 94—0098?
LICENSE NO.: MED’D26024

AD'LADOR A. CABRERA, 34.13.,

Respondent.

 

EINAL OEDEE

THIS CAUSE came bafore the Board of Medicine (Board) on August 2,
399?, in Naples, Florida, for the purpose of considering Respnndent‘s
offer to voluntarily relinquish his licensa to practice medicine in
the State of Florida. (Attached hereto as Exhibit A.) Said written
offer of relinquishment specifically provides: Respondent agrees never
agaiﬂ to apply for licensure a5 a physician in the State of Florida.

Upon consideration of the written offer of voluntary
relinquishment. tha charges, and the other documents of recard, and
being otherwise fully advised in the premises.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED

That Respnndent's Voluntary Relinquishment of his license to

practice medicine in the State OE Florida is hereby ACCEPTED.

This Final Order shall take effect upon being filed with the
Clerk of the Department of Healthh

DONE AND ORDERED this day Of , 1997.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

 

EDWARD A. BAUER, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

FI ATE ” SERVI

l
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing

Final Order has been proviﬁed by HAS. Mail to Amador A‘ Cabrera, M.D..
1137 Castille Ayenue, Coral Gables, Florida 33134; and by interoffice
delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr,, Chief Attorney. Agency for Health
Care Administration, 272? Mahan Drive, Tallahassee, Florida 32303-

5403, on or before 5:00 p.m., this day of ,

 

1997.

disciplinary hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully issued
subpoena of the department.

NHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: permanent revocation or suspension of the Respondent's
license, restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate. ~\\
SIGNED this 4: day of Wm 1995.
Douglas M. Cook Director

,7
C ;—1€;ﬁ(g %//%Zézcw/

 

 

G. McPherson
Chief Medical Attnrney

COUNSEL FOR AGENCY:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr. Fl L E D

Chief Medical Attorney AGENCYFOH
Agency for Health Care Administration HEALﬂicﬁﬁEADMHﬂSTHKHON
1940 North Monroe Street DEFUTYCLERK
Tallaha55ee, Florida 32399-0792 ’
Florida Bar $33543 CLERK 4992“ g

RPC/kjh DATE

PCP: December 15, 1994
Murray, Slade, and Varn

x]

93-13-1997 52:57pm R1712

STATE OF FLORIDA.
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICDE

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE
ADNENISTRATION.

Petitioner, -
v. AHCACueNo. 94-00937
AMADOR CABRE'RA MD,

Remain;

I

W

Toavoidrhenemsizynfﬁmhmadmhﬁmﬁveproceuﬁnginthisme,ﬂw
Remdmhcrdnﬁmmhwlmmmﬂnquishmemﬁhisﬁmmmcﬁmasaphysiciminmc

 

State ofFlou-ida. “mmmonmme Rasyondmt agreesneveragainto npplyforlicme as
a physidan in the State ofFIcu-ida.

Whmuﬂnqlﬁshmgntsmoﬁ‘aedtome BoardefMadicinetosvoidﬁm

administraﬁvc prosecution, this is considered to be disciplinary acﬁan against the Respondun':

'licensetopracﬁcemediciminthesmc ofFlorida. Assunhanyandandiscipﬁnm-y acﬁumukea
by 111: Board of Main» are :eponed m the Fuiemu'cm of Sum Medical "Bands and the National
Practitioner Data Bank.

Upon thc Board's adoption ofthis Raﬁnqmbmm, Respondem expressly waim all
further procedural steps. and expressly waives all righls to seek judicial review of a: to otherwise
challenge or comes! the validity of thc Relinquishmem and the Final Ordn- uf ﬂu: Board
incorporating said Reﬁnquishmem.

85-13-1997 32:579‘1

connectionwiththism.
Wsmmtkmcmwtemdmformemmeafwﬁcﬁng

fartheradminism'eacﬁwwithrespmmﬂﬁacause. mmisngmikespmdmmnﬁmthc

BomuwaimmmmmmMgaﬁwmmmmmkmm

sum: or mama
couzm' or; Bani?—

Befnm me, personally amassed ﬂmgllr C&Egmﬂﬁms: mm is

lawn: to me by bfiilt‘ﬁ g §§ng [type of idwﬁﬁcaﬁun) and who, Imda oath,

acknowledges L’na! his'her signm appean above.

Swamtoandsubsm'bedbefmmethis [5% dayof LL42: .1997

My Commiasion Em: mama rm.

Henry Fuhiic. State a! Flun’da

Mr ﬁnmm, expires PM 15. 199?
No. mauszs

STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

AGENCY FOR HEALmH CARE
ADMINISTRATION,

PETITIONER.

V5. CASE NO. 94-0093?

AMADOR A. CABRERA, M.n.,

RESPONDENT.
I

AMENDED ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

 

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Agency for Health Care
Administration, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
Amado: A. Cabrera, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent,”
and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the
practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.42, Florida Statutes;
Chapter 455, Florida statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto a
licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0026024. Reapondent’s last known address is 1953
Red Road, Miami, Florida 33155-1253.

3. Respondent and another physician operated the Nutrition
and Fitnass Center (NFC) from March 1991, through February 1994.

4. During this period, NFC treated patients for weight loss

and physical therapy.

5. Each year, approximately 400 of NFC's patients had their
insurance companies billed for the services NFC provided during
this period.

6. NFC submitted claims to many of their patients', including
but not limited to Patient H.A., L.D. and B.Q., insurance companies
for treatments that were not provided.

7. For the years 1992 and 1993 combined, NFC received
approximately $1.5 million in insurance benefits.

8. Insurance records indicate that Patient M.A. received
hot/cold packs, electrical stimulation (unattended) and ultrasound
on five (5) occasions during the time from on or about October 12,

1992, through on or about October 23, 1992, and that NFC filed

claims for the services.

9. Patient H.A. did not receive the aforementioned
treatmenta.
10. Insurance recorda indicate that Patient L.D. received

hotgcold packs, ultrasound and measaqe therapy on five (5)
occasions during the time from on or about January 20, 1993.

through on or about March 22, 1993, and that NFC filed Claims for

the services.

11. Patient L.D. did not receive the aforementioned
treatments.
12. Insurance records indicate that Patient E.Q. received

hot/oold packs, electrical stimulation (unattended) and ultrasound

on three (3) oocasions during the time from on or about February

1?, 1993, through on or about February 24, 1993, and that NFC filed

claims for the services.

13. Patient B.Q. did not receive the aforementioned
treatments.

14. When Blue Cross/Blue Shield [BCBS3 requested the records
of patients insured by BCBS and treated by NFC to confirm the
treatments billed by NFC, Respondent and his partner staged a
burglary of the medical office, stole patient records, threw the
records away and reported to BCBS that the records had been stolen.

15. Rule 59R—10.002(2) [formerly 61F6-26.0D2(2)], Florida

Administrative Code, states,

A licensed physician shall maintain the full and total
responsibility for and control of all files and records
relating to his patients and his medical practice. All
such records shall remain confidential except as
otherwise provided by law and shall be maintained in the

licensed physician's office or in the possession of the
licensed physician.

16. Respondent and his partner reviewed the insurance claims
without reviewing patient records and filed claims for treatments
that were not performed of were not medically justified.

17. Respondent’s partner was responsible for the medical
treatment of patients after December 1992, when Respondent's
license was placed on suspension by the Board in response to
Subject's l935 conviction of conspiracy to distribute drug.
However, with Respondent’s knowledge, the partner allowed a
physician assistant to treat and prescribe treatments for patients

when the partner was not present and without supervision, that were

not justified.

M

18. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through seventeen (17) as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

19. Respondent is guilty failing to report to the department
any person who the licensee knows is in violation of this chapter
or of the rules of the department or the board, in that Respondent
failed to report his partner for committing violations of Chapter
458, Florida Statutes, including, but not limited to, filing
fraudulent insurance claims and failing to maintain patient
records.

20. Based an the foregoing, Keepandent violated Section
458.331(1){e), Florida Statutes, and is guilty failing to report to
the department any person who the licensee knows is in violation of
this chapter or of the rules of the department or the board.

count Two

21. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through seventeen (1?) and nineteen (19) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

22. Respondent is guilty of making deceptive, untrue, or
fraudulent representations in or related to the practice of
medicine or employing a trick or scheme in the practice of
medicine, in that Respondent reviewed and allowed insurance claims
to be filed that he knew were false.

23. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1](k), Florida Statutes, and is guilty of making deceptive,

untrue, or fraudulent representations in or related to the practice

of medicine or employing a trick or scheme in the practice of
medicine.
Count Three

24. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through seventeen (17), nineteen (19) and twenty-two (22) as if
fully set forth herein this Count Three.

25. Respondent is guilty of failing to keep written medical
records justifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or
administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalization, in
that Patients M.A., L.D. and B.Q. did not have medical records that
documented or justified their treatment at NFC.

26. Based on the foregoing, ReSpondent violated Section
458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, and is guilty of failing to keep
written medical records justifying the course of treatment of the
patient, including, but not limited to, patient histories;
examination results; test results; records of drugs prescribed,
dispensed, or administered; and reports of consultations and
hospitalization.

Count Four

2?. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraph one (1)
through seventeen (17}, nineteen (19), twenty-two (22) and twenty-
five (25) as if fully set forth herein this Count Four.

28. Respondent is guilty of exercising influence on the

patient or Client in such a manner a5 to exploit the patient or

Client for financial gain of the licensee or of a third party, in
Respondent submitted claims from NFC to Blue Crassfalue Shield of
Florida for services that were not performed on Patients M.A., L.D.
and B.Q.

29. Based on the foregoing, Respondent is violated Section
458.331(1)(n}, Florida Statutes, and is guilty of exercising
influence on the patient or client in such a manner as to exploit
the patient or client for financial gain of the licensee or of a
third party, which shall include, but not be limited to, the
promoting or selling of services. goods, appliances, or drugs.

Count Five

30. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraph one [1)
through seventeen (17}, nineteen (19)Ir twenty-two (22), twenty-five
(25) and twenty-eight (28) as if fully set forth herein this Count
Five.

31. Respondent is guilty of violating any provision of this
chapter; a rule of the board or department, in that Keepandent
violated Rule 59R—10.002(2) [formerly Rule 61F6—26.002(2}], Florida
Administrative Code, in failing to maintain patient medical records
by staging a burglary of patient records and throwing patient
records away.

32. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(11(x), Florida Statutes, and is guilty of violating any
provision of this chapter, a rule of the board or department, or a

lawful order of the board or department previously.entered in a

