 

STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE '

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE
ADMINISTRATION, BOARD OF

MEDICINE,
Petitioner,
V. CASE NUMBERS: 94—03302
94‘06012
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0033304
Fi tom N .AHCA-asomsao nG- -
WILLIAM EUGENE LATIMER, M.D., ”‘ r “ W " M
Agency for Hulth Cam Adminislrnlicn
Respond ent . AGENCY CLERK

 

/ ILS. Power Agency Cl=rk
BwtﬁWNA:

FINAL ORDER D‘W" “‘m’c‘“

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine: (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.570), Florida Statutes, on June 10, 1995 in
Gainesville, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in
the above-styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent
Agreement, the documents submitted in support thereof, the
arguments 'of the parties, and being otherwise advised in’the
premises, the Board rejected the consent Agreement proposed and
offered an amendment at the hearing, which amendment was accepted
without objection by the parties.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein with the following amendment:

1. Paragraph 4. of the stipulated Disposition shall be
amended to reflect that Respondent’s license to practice medicine
in the State of Florida shall be permanently restricted from

prescribing any and all controlled substances in the State of

‘

Florida until Respondent can appear before the Board and
establishes that he can practice medicine with reuéonable skill and
safety. The Respondent shall not be required to complete the
course sponsored by the University of South Florida entitled
"Clinical, Legal and Ethical Issues in Prescribing Abusable Drugs".

2. Upon the filing of the Final Order in this cause,
Respondent's liCense to practice medicine in the State of Florida
shall be placed on probation for a period of five (5) years with
the following terms and conditions imposed:

1. Respondent shall comply with all state and federal
statutes, rules, and regulations pertaining to the practice of
medicine, including Chapters 455, 458, 893, Florida Statutes, and
Rule Chapter 59R, Florida Administrative Code.

2. Respondent shall appear before the Board's
Probationer’s Committee at the first meeting after said probation
commences, at the last meeting of the Boétd’s Probationer’s
Committee preceding termination of probation, annually, and at such
other times as requested by the Board’s Probatianer's Committee.
Respondent shall be noticed by Board staff of the date, time and
place of the meeting Whereat Respondent’s appearance is required.
Failure of the Respondent to appear as requested or directed shall
be considered a violation of the terms of the Final Order entered
in this matter, and shall subject the Respondent to diseiplinary
action.

3. In the event the Respondent leaves the state of
Florida for a period of thirty days or more or otherwise does not

engage in the active practice of medicine in the State of Florida,

sponsored course, Clinical, Legal and Ethical Issues in Prescribing

Abusable Drugs.

5. QOHIINUIEG MEDICAL EDUQATLOE, TheRespondentshallattend
a total of ten (10) hours of Category I Continuing Medical

Education in the area of Risk Management, within one (1) year of
the filing of the Final Order incorporating the terms of this
agreement. The Respondent shall submit documentation
substantiating his attendance and completion of these medical
education courses to the Board of Medicine within one (1) year of
the filing of the Final order in this matter. These hours shall be
in addition to those hours required for renewal of licensure.

6. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject
to the approval of the Board and the Agency. In this regard, the
foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs) shall have
no force and effect unless a Final Order incorporating the terms of
this Agreement is entered by the Board.

7. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting of
the Board where this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in
conjunction with the consideration of this Agreement by the Board,
shall respond to questions under oath from the Board, Board Staff
or Department Staff. The Respondent shall be prepared to explain
the circumstances involved in this matter and what measures have
been taken to prevent a reoccurrence.

8. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by the Respondent may be used as

direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding; however,

such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment
purposes.

9. Respondent and the Agency fully understahd that this joint
Agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will in no
way preclude additional proceedings by the Board and/or the
Department against the Respondent for acts or omissions not
specifically set forth in the Administrative Complaints attached as
Exhibit A herein.

10. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent
expressly waives all further procedural steps and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Agreement.

11. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will bear his own attorney’s fees and
costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attornéY’s fees or costs
from the Agency in connection with this matter.

12. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative action with respect to
‘this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the
Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to. and

consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by

the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or

any of its members from further participation, consideration or
resalutiOn of these proceedings.

SIGNED this 2554—“ day of

 

WILLIAM EUGENE‘LAIIMER, M D.

I

Before me, personally appeared .xﬂVzM.LLu;HJviaﬂuU& HM]
whose identity is known to me by ‘ R(K'Au 11 r J " (t e of
identification) and who, under oath, ac nowledges that
signature appears above.

        
   

15 her

      
 

war to and subscribed before
-' 3‘ if“ [(UU , 1994 f)
‘1: .
‘ m n . . 1. EIFIM Ml
My Commission Expires: Q}? me5 rm

‘ ‘ nmuwumnmgmmmmmg
APPROVED this , <P , day of g%& , 199w /9{6)ﬁ

Douglas M. Cook,
Directo

gM/MM

B : arry G. McPherson,
Chief Attorney
Medical Section

me

   

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE
ADMINISTRATION,

PETITIONER,
vs. CASE NO. 9403302 E 9406012

William Eugene Latimer, M.D.

RESPONDENT.
/

gDMgNISTRATIVE CQMPLAINI
COMES NOW the Petitioner, Agency for Health Care

 

Administration, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
William Eugene Latimer, H.D. hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent," and alleges:

1‘ Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.165, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chépter 458, Florida

statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0033304. Respondent's last known address is P.O.
Box 308, Hilliard, Florida 32046.

3. Respondent’s specialty is family practice and he is not
board certified.

4. On or about August 10, 1993, the Florida Board of

Medicine (Board) entered a Einal Order in DBPR Case No. 91-09424

mandating that Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters

.455, 458, and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules promulgated

pursuant thereto.

EACLS PEBIAINING TO PAIIEET £1

5. In or about June of 1993, Respondent's office nurse,
Barbara Walker, L.P.N., provided Patient #1 with one (1) 10 ml vial
of Talwin 30 mg without Respondent’s consent.

6. Talwin is a legend drug as defined by Section 465.003(7),
Florida Statutes, and contains pentazocine lactate, a Schedule IV
controlled substance listed in Chapter 893, Florida Statutes.
Talwin is indicated for the relief of moderate to severe pain, and
may also be used for preoperative or preanesthetic medication.
Psychological and physical dependence may result with the extended
use of Talwin.

7. Respondent learned of the improper dispensing of Talwin
referenced in paragraph five (5) above, but he failed to report the
loss of Talwin to the U.S. Drug Enforcement Admihistration (DEA) as
required by 21 U.S.C. 811, or to maintain a record of the loss of
Talwin as required by Section 893.07(5), Florida statutes.

8. In or about November of 1993, upon return from vacation,
Respondent discovered that two (2) 10 ml vials of Talwin 30 mg were
missing from the file cabinet where the drugs were stored.
Respondent again failed to report the loss of Talwin to the U.S.
DEA as required by 21 U.S.C. 811, or to maintain a record of the

loss as required by Section B93.07(5), Flotida Statutes.

'9. on or about February 18, 1994, U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration agent James Graumlich and detective George Howell of
the Jacksonville Sheriff's office visited Respokdént’s office in
order £0 conduct an audit of Respondent's controlled substances.

10. The audit referenced in paragraph nine (9) above was
unable to be performed because Respondent failed to maintain a
complete and accurate record of the controlled substance Talwin

administered or dispensed by him.

COUNI ONE

11. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through ten (10) as if fully set forth herein th;s Count One.

12. Respondent failed to perform a statutory obligation place
upon him by Section 893.07(1)(b), Florida Statutes, in that
Respondent did not maintain, on a current basis, a complete and
accurate record of each controlled substance sold, delivered or
otherwise disposed of by his office.

13. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent has
violated Section 458.331(1)(g), Florida Statutes, by failing to

perform any statutory or legal obligation placed upon a licensed

physician.

w

14. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through ten (10) and paragraph twelve (12) as if fully set forth

herein this Count Two.

15. Respondent failed t9 file a report or record required by
state and federal law in that Respondent: failed to report the
June of 1993 and November of 1993 losses of ”the' controlled
substance Talwin to the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug
Enforcement Administration, as required by 21 U.S.C. 811; and
failed to maintain a record which shall contain a detailed list of
controlled substances lost, destroyed, or stolen, as required by
Section 893.o7(5I, Florida statutes.

16. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent has
violated Section 458.331(1)(h), Florida Statutes, by making or
filing a report with the licensee knows to be false, intentionally
or negligently failing to file a report or record required by state
or federal law, willfully impeding or obstructing such filing or
inducing another person to do so. such reports or records shall

include only those which are signed in the capacity as a licensed

physician.

[ACTS PERTAINING T0 PATIENL £2

17. On or about February 7, 1994, Patient £2, a 39 year old
male, presented to Respondent complaining of lower back pain and
left shoulder pain. Respondent provided Patient #2 with
prescriptions, dated February 7, 1994, for 60 units of Valium 5mg
and 30 units of Vicodin ES. Furthermore, Respondent provided
Patient #2 with prescriptions, pre—dated for March 7, 1994, for 60

units of Valium 5mg and 30 units of Vicodin ES.

18. On or about March 7, 1994, Patient #2 filled the pre-
dated prescriptions for Valium 5mg and Vicodin ES without the
benefit of prior examination or other evaluation By Respondent.

19. Valium 5mg is a legend drug as defined by Section
465.003(7), Florida Statutes, and contains 5 mg of diazepam, a
Schedule IV controlled substance listed in Chapter 393, Florida

Statutes.

20. Vicodin E8 is a legend drug as defined by Section
465.003(7), Florida Statutes, and contains 7.5 mg of hydrocodone,
a Schedule III controlled substance listed in Chapter 893, Florida
Statutes. Hydrocodone may be habit forming and, therefore, Vicodin

83 should be prescribed and administered with caution.

ACTS ER INING TO AT ENT 3
21. On or about February 14, 1994, Patient [3, a 40 year old
male, presented to Respondent complaining of difficulty with
prolonged standing and anding. Respondent oiovided Patient [3
with a prescription, dated February 14, 1994, for 90 units of
Tylenol [4 w/codeine. Furthermore, Respondent previded Patient #3
with a prescription, pre—dated for February 28, 1994, for 60 units

of Valium 10mg.

22. On or about February 28, 1994, Patient #3 filled the pre~
dated prescription for Valium 10mg without the benefit of prior
examination or other evaluation by Respondent.

23. Tylenol I4 w/codeine is a legend drug as defined by

section 465.003(7), Florida statutes, and contains 60 mg of

.codeine, a Schedule III controlled substance listed in Chapter 893,
Florida Statutes.

24. On or about February 21, 1994, Respondent surrendered his

Drug Enforcement Administration certificate of registration, thus

making him unable to obtain, store, administer, prescribe, or

dispense controlled substances.

COUNT EHREE

25. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through four (4) and paragraphs seventeen (17) through twentyvfour
(24) as if fully set forth herein this Count Three.

26. Respondent prescribed controlled substances not in the
best interests of patients and other than in the course of his
professional practice in that Respondent: provided Patient #2 with
pre—dated prescriptions for the controlled substances Valium and
vicodin resulting in Patient [2 obtaining said controlled
substances without the benefit of prior examination or other
evaluation; and provided Patient I3 with a pre-dated prescription
for the controlled substance Valium resulting in Patient #3
obtaining the controlled substance without the benefit of prior
examination or other evaluation.

27. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent has
violated Section 458.331(1)(q), Florida Statutes, by prescribing,
dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing a legend
drug, including any controlled substance, other than in the course

of the physician’s professional practice. For the purposes of this

.paragraph, it shall be legally presumed that prescribing,
dispensing, administering, mixing, Or otherwise preparing legend
drugs, including all controlled substances, inahpfopriately or in
exceSSive or inappropriate quantities is not in the best interest
of the patient and is not in the course of the physician's

professional practice, without regard to his intent.

COUNT EQUR

28. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through ten (10), paragraph twelve (12), paragraph fifteen (15),
paragraphs seventeen (17) through twenty—four (24). and paragraph
twenty-six (26) as if fully set forth herein this Count Four.

29. Respondent violated a lawful order of the Board in that
Respondent: violated the Final Order entered in DBPR Case No. 91—
09424 by violating provisions of Chapters 458 and 893, Florida
Statutes, after the Fina; Order referenced above had been entered.

30. Based on the preceding allegatiohé, Respondent has
violated Section 458.331(1)(x), Florida Statutes, by violating any
provision of this Chapter, a rule of the board or agency, or a
lawful order of the board or agency previously entered in a
disciplinary hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully issued

subpoena of the agency.

then certain provisions of Respondent’s probation (and only those
provisions of said probation) shall be tolled ae enuherated below
and shall remain in a tolled status until Respondent returns to
active practice in the State of Florida' Respondent must keep
current residence and business addresses on file with the Board.
Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (10) days of any
changes of said addresses. Furthermore, Respondent shall notify
the Board within ten (10) days in the event that Respondent leaves
the active practice of medicine in Florida.

4. In the event that Respondent leaves the active
practice of medicine in this state for a period of thirty days or
more, the following provisions of his probation shall be tolled:

a. The time period of probation shall be tolled.

b. The provisions regarding supervision, whether
direct or indirect by another physician.

c. The provisions regarding preparation of
investigative reports detailing compliance with this Stipulation.

d. The provisions regarding paration of semi-
annual reports by the Respondent and his supervision/monitor.

5. In the event that Respondent leaves the active
practice of madicine for a period of one year or more, the Board’s
Probationer's Committee may require Respondent to appear before the
Probationer's Committee and demonstrate his ability to practice
medicine with skill and safety to patients prior to resuming the
practice of medicine in this State.

6. Respondent shall not practice except under the

indirect supervision of a physician fully licensed under Chapter

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: permanent revocation or suspension of the Respondent's
license, restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the

Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate. ,\
\
SIGNED this vi? day of quiz , 1994.

I

Douglas‘M. Cook, Director '~.

‘1 74/ 5", y,/}Ij7hl _ .'
‘ /¢r\,'/, ’ /A:i’/'

Larry7G. McPherson, Jr. ‘

Chief Medical Attorney

 

  

COUNSEL FOR AGENCY:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr. Fl LED

Chief Medical Attorney AGENCYFO“

Agency for Health Care Administration HEALTHCAREADWNBVW

1940 North Monroe Street DAmm 5,!
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750

Florida Bar #788643 CLERK 01‘] 353 LL‘
LGM/ceb ?’Xé a

PCP: July 15, 1994
Katims, Fenwick

458 who has been approved by the Board or its Probationer's
Committee. Absent provision for and complian'ce‘ with the terms
regarding temporary approval of a monitoring physician set forth in
paragraph 7 below, Respondent shall cease practice and not practice
until the Board’s Probationer's Committee approves a monitoring
physician. Respondent-shall have the monitOring physician with him
at his first probation appearance before the Board's Probationer's
Committee. A failure of the Respondent or his monitoring physician
te appear at the scheduled probation meeting shall constitute a
Violation of the Board’s Final Order. Failure of the Respondent or
the monitoring physician to appear at the scheduled Probation
Committee shall constitute a violation of this Order. Prior to
approval of the monitoring physician by the Board’s Probationer’s
Committee, the Respondent shall provide to the monitoring physician
a copy of the AdministratiVe complaint and Final Order filed in
this case. Prior to the approval of the monitoring physician by
the Board’s Probationer's Committee, Respondent shall submit to the
Board’s Probationer’s Committee a current curriculum vitae and
description of the current practice from the proposed monitoring
physician. Said materials shall be received in the Board office no
later than fourteen days before the Respondent's first scheduled
probation appearance. The attached definition of a monitoring
physician is incorporated herein. The responsibilities of a
monitoring physician shall include:
(a) Submit semi—annual reports, in
affidavit form, which shall include:

1. Brief statement of why physician is on

wprobation.

2. Description of probatihnér's practice.

3. Brief statement of probationer’s compliance
with terms of probation. I

4. Brief description of probationer’s
relationship with monitoring physician.

5. Detail any problems which may have arisen
with probationer.

Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring
that the monitoring physician submits the required reports.

(b) Review 25% percent of Respondent's patient
records selected on a random basis at least once every month. In
order to comply with this responsibility of random review, the
monitoring physician shall go to Respondent’s office once every
month. At that time, the monitoring physician shall be responsible
for making the random selection of the recordé to be reviewed by
the monitoring physician.

(0) Report to the Board any violatidns by the
probationer of Chapter 455 and 458, Florida statutes, and the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto.

7. The Board shall confer authority on the Chairman of
the Board's Probationer’s Committee to Egmgggggiix approve
Respondent’s mohitoring physician. In order to obtain this
temporary approval, Respondent shall submit to the Chairman of the
Board's Probationer's Committee the name and curriculum vitae of
the proposed monitoring physician. This information shall be

furnished to the Chairman of the Board’s Probationer’s Committee by

way of the Board of Medicine’s executive director, within 48 hours
after Respondent receives the Final Order in this matter. This
information may be faxed to the Board of Medicine at (904) 487—9622
or may be sent by overnight mail or hand delivery to the Board of
Medicine at the Agency for Health Care Administration, 1940 North
Monroe Street, Suite 60, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750. In
order to provide time for Respondent's proposed monitoring
physician to be approved or disapproved by the Chairman of the
Board's Probationer's Committee, Respondent shall be allowed to
practice medicine while approval is being sought, but only for a
period of five working days after Respondent receives the Final
Order. If Respondent's monitoring physician has not been approved
during that time frame, then ReSpondent shall cease practicing
until such time as the monitoring physician is temporarily
approved. In the event that the proposed supervising physician is
not approved, then Respondent shall cease praeti:ing immediately.
Should Respondent’s supervising physician be approved, said
approval shall only remain in effect until the next meeting of the

Board's Probationer's Committee. Absent said aggravall Respondent

shall not Eractice medicine until a monitoring thsician is

apgroved.

8. In view of the need for ongoing and continuous
monitoring or supervision, Respondent shall also submit the
curriculum vitae and name of an alternate monitoring physician to
be approved by the Board or its Probationer' Committee. Such
physician shall be licensed pursuant to Chapter 458, Florida

Statutes, and shall have the same duties and responsibilities as

specified for Respondent's monitoring physic;an during those
periods of time which Respondent’s monitoring physician is
temporarily unable to provide supervision. Prior to practicing
under the indirect supervision of the alternate monitoring
physician or the direct supervision of the alternate supervising
physician, Respondent shall so advise the Board’s Probationer's
Committee in writing. Respondent shall further advise the Board’s
Probationer’s Committee in writing of the period of time during
which Respondent shall practice under the supervision of the
alternate monitoring physician. Respondent shall not practice
unless he is under the supervisibn of either the apprqved
monitoring physician or the approved alternate.

9. Respondent shall submit semi—annual reports in
affidavit form, the contents of which shall be specified by the
Board. The reports shall include:

(a) Brief statement of why 'physician is on

probation.

(b) Practice location.

(0) Describe current practice (type and
composition).

(d) Brief statement of compliance with probationary
terms.

(e) Describe relationship with monitoring
physician.

(f) Advise Board of any problems.
10. Respondent understands that during this period of

probation, semi—annual investigative reports will be compiled with

the Agency concerning his compliance with the terms and conditions
of probation and the rules and statutes regulating the practice of
medicine.

11. Respondent shall pay all coats nesessary to comply
with the terms of the Final Order.issued based on this proceeding.
Such costs include, but are not limited to, the costs of
preparation of the investigative reports detailing compliance with
the terms of the Final Order entered in this case, the cost of
analysis of any blood or urine specimens submitted pursuant to the
Final Order entered as a result of this proceeding, and
administrative Costs directly associated with Respondent's
probation. See Section 458.331(2), Florida Statutes.

Accordingly, the parties shall adhere to and abide by all of
the terms and conditions of the Consent Agreement, as amended.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of
the Agency.

DONE AND ORDERED this ég day {gfgéiﬂ g , 1995.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

/ _

6424?; E CJLMC/LizLoL
GARY E. WINCHESTER, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.s. Mail to William T. Lassiter,
Jr. Esquire, 720 North Ocean Street, Jacksonville, Florida 32202
and by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief
Medical Attorney, Agency for Health Care Administration“ Northwood
Centre, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792,
at or before 5:00 P.M., this ___ day of 7 ,
1995. _

 

 

 

MARM M. HARRIS, Ed.D. ‘
Executive Director

BTATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE
ADMINISTRATION,

Patitioner,

Vs. - A301 CASE NO. S4-3302
AHCA CASE NO. Sl‘GGLE

WILLIAH EUGENE LATIHER, M.D., ‘

Respondent.

/

COEBENT AGREEMENT
WILLIAM EUGENE LATIMER, M.D., referred to as the “Respondent,"

 

and the Agency for Health Care Administration, referred to as
"Agency," stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and to the
entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as
"Board," incorporating the stipulated Facts and stipulated
Disposition in this matter.

STIPULATED EACTS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed
physician in the state of Florida having been.isshed license number
ME 0033304.

2. Respondent was charged by Administrative Complaints filed
by the Agency and properly served upon Respondent with violations
of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules enacted pursuant
thereto. True and correct copies of the Administrative Complaints
are attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of

fact contained in the Administrative Complaints.

SEIPULATEQ CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, he is subject to the provisions of Chaﬁters 455 and 458,
Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Agency and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaints, if proven, would constitute violations

of Chapter 458, Florida statutes, as alleged in the Administrative

Complaints.
SIIEULATED DISPOSIIIQN
1. FUTQBE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the future

violate Chapters 455, 458 and 893, Florida Statutes, or the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto. Prior to signing this agreement, the
Respondent read chapters 455, 458 and 893 and the Rules of the

Board of Medicine, at Section 59R, Florida Administrative Code.

2. ADMINISTRAIIVE EINE. The Board shall impose an

administrative fine in the amount of Five Thousand Dollars
($5,000.00) against the Respondent. The fine shall be paid by the
Respondent to the Board of Medicine within 180 days of its
imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. REERIMAND. The Respondent shall receive a Reprimand
from the Board of Medicine.

4. RESTRICTlou. The Respondent shall be restricted from
prescribing any and all controlled substances for a period of one
(1) year from the filing of the Final Order and until such time as

Respondent attends and completes the University of South Florida

