 

STATE OF FLORIDA
BOARD OF MEDICINE

Flmuw mmmﬂﬂbg -MADI -§E}ﬁ
DEPARTMENT OF HERIEH, "‘3 ‘r Qﬁ—HMD Q' "3'

Dcpaﬂmeul ol‘ I-ImJIJI
Angela ":11, AGENCY CLERK

 
 
 

 

Petitioner.

 

:puiy Agency

VS. CASE NO.: 94-05110
LICENSE NCL: ME0029230

ALLAN LEE FEDGSKY, M . D . .

Respondent.

 

ER

THIS CAUSE came before the Board of Medicine {Boardj pursuant to
Sections 120.569 and 120.57(4). Florida Statutes, on February 6, 1999.
in Jacksonville. Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement
(attached hereto as Exhibit A} entered into between the parties in the
above—styled cause. Upon consideration of the Consent Agreement, the
documents submitted in support thereof. the arguments of the parties!
and being otherwise advised in the premises, the Board rejected the
Consent Agreement proposed and offered an amendment, which wag
accepted without objection by the parties. The amendment to the
proposed Consent Agreement is as follows:

In paragraph 4 of the Stigulated Dispoeition, the US? drug course
will be deleted. In its place, the Respondent shall submit to the
University of Florida's professional evaluation program and comply

with any and all recommendations of said evaluation. Said evaluation

» 5

mus; be cempleted within six months from the date this Final Order is
filed. In addition. a written report with regard to the evaluation
must be submitted to the Board's Probationer's Committee,

All other terms of the proposed Consent Agreement remain the
same.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in tote and
incorporated by reference herein with the amendment set forth above.
Accordingly, the parties shall adhere to and abide by all the terms
and conditions of the Consent Agreement as amendeﬁ.

This Final Order shall take effect upon being filed with the

Clerk of the Department of Health.

41..
DONE AND ORDERED this cgéz day at N1£Fd\ , 1999.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

 

ERT F V -
I BEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing

Final Order has been provided by U.S. Mail to Allan Lee Fedosky, M.D‘.

requested by the Committee. Respondent shall be noticed by the Board staﬁof‘the dale, time and
place ofﬁle Cormnirtcc meeting whereal Respondent's appearance is required. Failure of
Respondent to appear as requested or directed shall be considered a vioiation of’rhe terms ufihjs
Agreement. and shall subject lhe Respondent to disciplinm' action.

2. Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring Lhal {he monitor submits all

required reports.

3‘ Other requirements nfprobation.

C. RESPONSIBlLITJES OF THE MONITORING PHYSICIAN.
The Monimr shall:

I. Review twcnw-ﬁvc percent (25%) of Respondent's active patient records, to
Include among other things, a review in the way lhe Respondent prescribes synthetic hormones
such as Synthroid and Cytomel, and a1 [cast once a month for the purane of ascertaining the:
appropriateness of care and treatment of his patients as wcli as compliance wiﬂ'l the terms of This
agreement. The monitor shall go to Respondenl's ofﬁce once every month and shall review
Respondent's calendar or patient fog and shall selucl 1hr: retards to be reviewed.

3. Review ali prescriptions written by the Respondent and submit copies of the
prescriptions and rcpans of said review to the Board on a quarterly basis, in affidavit form, at least
23 days prior to each applicable Btuard meeting‘ and each of which shall include a list of the
prescriptions issued

3. Consult with Respondent on all cases involving the prescribing of synthetic

honnones. For the purposes of this Censent Agreement, the scope of consultalinn shall be as

follows; why the Reapondent prescribed the synthetic hormones= and type of synthetic Ilonnunes
prescribed, follow—up care instructions given 10 patient.

4. Maintain contact with The Respondent on a frequency ofat least once per
week. [1-1 the event [hat the monitor is not timely contacted by RespondenL Ihen the monitor shall
immediately report this fact to the Beard, in writing.

5. Respondcnt's moniior shall appear before the Board at the ﬁrst meeting of
said Board following commencement of the probation, and at such other times as directed by ﬂit:
Board. It shall be Respondent's responsibility to ensure the appearance of his monitor to appear as
requested in directed. If'the approved monitor fails to appear as rcquested or directed by the Board,
Lhe Respondent shall hnmediately cease practicing medicine until such time as the approved
monitor or aitcmate monitor appears before the Board.

D. REPORTS F ROM RESPONDENI'. The Respondent Shall submit quarterly
repona t0 the Board at ieast 28 days prior to each applicable Board meeting. Each report shall be

in affidavit form, the contenls of which may be futher speciﬁed by the Board, but which shall

include:
i. A brief statement ofwhy Respondent is on probation.
ii. A description ofpractice location.
iii. A description ofcurrent practice (type and composition}
iv. A bricfsiaiement of compliance with probationmy terms.
v. A description ofﬂie relationship with monitoring physician.

vi. A statement advismg the Board ofany problems which have an'sen.

vii. A statement addressing compliance with any restrictions or requirements
imposed.

viii. Any other reporting requirements.

STANDARD PROVISIONS
This Consent Agreement shall be govemed to the extent applicable by the attached
”Standard Terms Applicable to Consent Agreements", Exhibit B, which is hicorpumted as it fully
set forth herein.
1. It is express 3* understood that this Agreement is subject to the approval Dflhe Board

and the Department. In this regard, the foregoing paragraphs {and only the foregoing paragraphs)

 

 

 

shall have no force '11'J.C1 e "eat unless a Final Order incorporating the terms of this Agreement is

 

entered by the Board.

2. Respondent is required to appear before the Board at the meeting of the Board
when this Agreement is considered.

3. Resliundent and the Department fully undersland that this joint agreement and
subsequent Final Order incorporating same will in no way preclude additional proceedhigs against
Respondent for acts or omissions not speciﬁcally set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached
as Exhibit ”A" herein.

4. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondent expressly waives all
further procedural steps, and expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review 01‘ or to otherwise
challenge 01' contest the validity ofﬂie Agreement and the Final Order of the Board incorporating

said Agreement.

10

vii. A statement addressing compliance with any restrictions or requirements
imposed.

viii. Any other reporting requirements‘

STANDARD PROVISIONS

This Consent Agreement shall be governed t0 the extent applicable by the attached
"Standard Terms Applicable to Consent Agreements", Exhibit B, which is incorporated as ii'fuiiy
set forth herein.

1. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject to the approval of the Board
and the Department. In this regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing pamgraphs)
shall have no force and eﬁ'ect unIeSS a Final Order incorporating the terms of this Agreement is
entered by the Board.

2. Respondent is required to appear before the Board at the meeting of the Board
where this Agreement is considered.

3. Respondent and the Depanment fully understand that this joint agreement and
subsequent Final Order incomporating same will in no way preclude additional proceedings against
Respondent for acts or omissions not speciﬁcally set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached
as Exhibit "A" herein.

4. Upon the Board's adaption of this Agreement, Respondent expressly waives all
ﬁthher pioccdmal steps, and expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise
challenge or contest the validity of the Agieement and the Final Order of the Board incomorating

said Agreement.

10

5. Upon the Board’s adoption of This Agreement, the parties hereby agree that each
party will hear his ovm attorney‘s fees and costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this
matter. Respondent waives the right to seek an),r attorney‘s fees or costs from the Departmem in
connection wilh this matter.

6. This agreement is executed by the Respondent for the purposa of avoiding ﬁmhcr
administmtive action with respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board To
review and examine all invcsLigaﬁvc ﬁle materials concerning Respondent prior m or in
conjunction with consideration of the Agreement. F urﬁ1ermorc, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that preswtation to and consideration of this Agreement and
other docmnents and matiers by the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or any

of its members from Further participation, consideration, or resolution ofthesc proceedmgs‘

11

Jrk

SIGNED this; 'day of M9 W?!“ m" ,1993.

    

ALLAN LEE FED ‘KY, Ix

Before me, personally appeared 4:. Lm. LEE Fsoorng ﬂ.ﬂ,whose identity is knownm me by

mru ?ﬂti E-D- $52 (type of identiﬁcation) and who= under oath, acknowledges that
hisfher signature appears above. ' '

Sworn to and subscribedbeforc me this 2 V K day of banana EA ,1992‘

MW

NOTARY PUBLIC

_ _ _ —— W m mm 1.3.23
My CDITIJ'EUSSIOIIEXPITCS: :0!“ "' mglgN 4! cc 529m

ﬁr EXPIRES FEB 01. 2000 _
9 " sow 'anu .a'a‘r- ' if

'4 me 00" mg
APPROVED this {Jagynf‘f‘j TE?’@- 4" ,1 99,8
James T. Howell, .13., Secretary

Lany G. McPherson,
Chi efAttomey
Medical Section

    

By:

12

ExhibitB
STANDARD TERMS APPLICABLE TO CONSENT AGREEMENTS
The following are the standard terms applicable to all Consent Agreements, including
supervision and monitoring provisions applicable to licensees on probation.

A. PAYMENT OF FINES. Unless otherwise directed by the Consent
Agreement, all ﬁnes shall be paid by check or money order and sent to the Board address set forth
in paragraph E, below. The Board oﬁice does not have the authority to change the terms of
payment ofany ﬁne imposed by the Board.

B4 COMMUNITY SERVICE AND CON’I'IMJ'WG EDUCATION UNITS.
Unless otherwise directed by the Consent Agreement, all community service requirements,
continuing education unitsfcourses must be completed, and documentation of such completion
submitted to the Board of Medicine at the address set forth below in pamgraph E, WITHIN ONE
YEAR OF THE DATE OF THE FINAL ORDER.

C. ADDRESSES. Respondent must keep current residence and practice
addresses on ﬁle with the Board. Respondent shall notify the Beam within ten (10) days of any
changes of said addresses. Furthermore, if the Respondent’s license is on probation, the
Respondent shall natify the Board within ten (ID) days in the event that Respondent leaves the
active practice ofuledicine in Florida.

D. £23.13 Pm—suam to Section 458.3310), Florida Statutes, the Respondent
shall pay all costs necessaxy to comply with the terms of this Consent Agreement. Such casts

include, but are not limited to, the cost of preparation of Investigative Reports detailmg compliance

13

with the terms of the Consent Agreement, obtaining. supervision or monitoring of the practice, the
cost of quality assurance reviews, and the Board's administrative cost directly associated with Ihe
Respondent's probation.

E. BOARD ADDRESS. Unless otherwise directed by the Board ofﬁce, all
ﬁnes, reporte, correspondence and inquiries shall be sent to: Board of Medicine, Department of
Health, Medical Quality Assurance, 2020 Capital Circle SE, BIN #CGB, Tallahassee, Florida
323996253, Arm: Final Order Compliance Ofﬁcer.

F, PROBATION TERJVIS. prrobatien was imposed by the Final Order oftbe
Beam], the following provisions are applicable.

L DEFINITIONS:

:1. INDIRECT SUPERVISION is supervision by a monitoring
physician (monitor) whose resPonsibein'es are set by the Board. Indirect supervision does not
require that the monitor practice on the same premises as the Respondent, however, the monitor
shall practice witlﬁn a reasonable geographic proximity to Respondent, which shall be within 20
miles unless otherwise provided by the Board and shall be readily available for consultation. The

monitor shail be Board Certiﬁed in the Respondent's specialty area unless oﬂlerwise provided by

the Board.

b. DIRECT SUPERVTSION is supervision by a supervising physician
(supewisor) whose reSpensibilitjes are set by the Board. Direct supervision requires that the
supervisor and ReSpondent work in the same ofﬁce. The supervising physician shall be board-

certiﬁed in the ReSpondent‘s specialty area unless otherwise provided by the Board.

14

2. RE QUIRED SUPERVISI N.

a. If the terms oftbe Consent Agreement include indirect monitoring of
the Iicensees's practice (MONITORING) or direct monitoring of the licensees practice
(SUPERVISION), the Respondent shall not practice medicine without an approved
monitorlsupewisor, as Speciﬁed by the Consent Agreement, unless otherwise ordered by the Board.

1). The monitorfsupervisor must be a licensee under Chapter 458,
Florida Statutes, in good standing and without restriction or limitation on his license. In addition,
the Board may reject any proposed morﬁtorfsupenrisor on the basis That he has previously been
Subject to any disciplinzuy action against his medical license in this or any other jurisdiction, is
currently under investigation, or is the subject of a pending disciplinary action The
monitora’supervisor must be actively engaged in the same or similar specialty area unless otherwise
provided by the Board and be practicmg within a reasonable distance of the Respondent's prac’ticc,
a distance of no more than twenty {20) miles unless otherwise speciﬁcaﬂy provided for in the
Consent Agreement. The Board may also reject any proposed moniton’supen'isor for good cause
shown.

c. MCHANISM FOR APPROVAL OF MONITORISUPERVISOR:

(1). TEMPORARY APPROVAL. The Board confers auﬂrmrity

on the Chaimlan of the Board to temporariiy apprcrvc Reapondent's monitorfsuperﬁsur. Tu abtain

this temporary approval, Respondent shall submit to the Chairman of the Board the name and

15

curriculum vitae 0f the pmpnsed monithrlsupervisor at the time this: agreement is considered by the
Board. Once a Final Order adopting this Agreement is ﬁled, Respondent shall not practice
medicine without an approved monitorisupervisor. Temporary approval shall only remain
in effect until the next meeting of the Board.

(2). FORJVHL APPROVAL. Respondent shall have the
monitorfsulnervisor with him at his ﬁrst pmhation appearance before the Board. Prior to
consideration of the monitorlsupcwisor by the Board, the Respondent shall provide to the
moniterfsupewisor a copy of the Administrative Complaint and Final Order in this case.
Respondent shall submit a current curriculmn vitae and a description of current practice ﬁom the
proposed monitorlsupervisortu the Board uﬁice no later than fourteen days before the ReSpondcnt's
ﬁrst scheduled probation appearance. Respondent's monitorfsupervisor shall also appear before the
Board at such other times as directed by the Board. It shall be Respondent's responsibility to ensure
that the appearance of his monitorisupervisor as directed. Failure of the monitorr‘supervisor to
appear as directed shall constitute a violation of the terms of this Consent Agreement and shall
subject the Re5pondent to disciplinary action.

d. CHANGE IN MONITORISUPERWSOR. In the event that
Respondent's monitorfsupervisor is unable or unwilling to fulﬁll his responsibilities as a
monitorfsupervisor as described above, then the Respondent shall immediateiy advise the Boaxcl of
this fact. Respondent shall immediately submit to the Chairman of the Board the name of a
temporary moniturfsupervisor for consideration. Respondent shall not practice pending approval of

this tempuraty monitorlsupenrisor by the Chaimah of the Board. Furmermore, Respondent shall

16

Access Medical Group. ?.A., Post Office Box 128, Shalimar, Florida
32579-0128, and by interoﬁfice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr.,
Chief Attorney. Agency for Health Care Administration, 2727 Mahan

Drive, Tallahassee, Florida 32308—5403, on or before 5:00 p‘m., this

day of . 1999.

make arrangements with his temporary monitorfsupenﬁsor to appear before the Board at its next
regularly scheduled meeting for consideration ofthe monitora’superﬁsor by the Board. Respondent
shall only practice under the auspices of the temporary monitorfsupervisor (approved by the
Chairman) until the next regularly Scheduled meeting ofthe Board whereat the issue of the Board's
approval of the Respondent's new moniterfsupervisor shall be addressed.
{3). W
a TOLLING PROVISIONS. In the event the
Respondent leaves the State of Florida for a period of thirty days or more or otherwise does not
engage in the active practice of medicine in Ihe- State of Fiorida, then certain provisions of
Respondent's probation (and only those provisions of the probation) shall he tolled as enumerated
below and shdl remain in a tolled stems until Respondenl returns to active practice in the State of
Florida:
(1 ). The time period ofprobation shall be tolled.
(2). The provisions regarding supervision whether direct
or indirect by another physician, and required reports
from the monitorr’supervisor shall be toiled.
(3). The provisions regarding preparation of investigative reports
detailing compliance with this Consent Agreement shall be
tolled.

(4} Any pmvisions regarding community service shall he tolled.

17

b, ACTIVE PRACTICE. In the event that Respondent

leaves the active practice of medicine for a period of one year 01' more, the Board may require
Respondent to appear before the Board and demonstrate his ability to pmcﬁcc medicine with skill

and safety to patients prior to resuming the practice ofmcdicinc in this State.

18

STATE OF FLORIDA

DEPARMNT OF HEALTH
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, )
PETITIONEIL 3
v. i CASE NO. 9405110
ALLAN LEE PEDOSKY, M.D., i
RESPONDENT. S:

 

ADMNISTRATIVE COWLAJNT

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Health, hereinafter Inferred to as
“Petitioner,“ and ﬁles this Achmﬁhjstrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against Allan
Lee FedosR-y, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent,” and alleges:

1. Effective July 1, 1997, ?etitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the
practice of medicine pursuant to Secﬁen 20.43, Florida Statutes (Supp. 1996); Chapter 455,
Florida Staretes, and Chapter 458, Fiorida Statutes. Pursuant to the provisions of Section
20.43(3)[f), Florida Statutes, the Petitioner has contracted with the Agency for Health Care
Administration to proﬁde consumer complaint, investigative, and prosecutorial services required
by the Division of Medical Quality Assurance, councils, or boards, as appropriate.

2. Respondent is and hes been at all tithes material hereto a licensed physician in the
state of Florida, having been issued license number ME 60é9230. prondeﬁf’s last I-znowh

address is 100 Richbourg Avenue, Shalimar, Florida 32579.

«« . u

3. Respondent is board certiﬁed in Family Practice.

4. Synthroid (levothymxjne sodium}, isl deﬁned as a legend drug by Section 465.003(7),
Florida Statutes. It is indicated for replacement or supplememal therapy in paﬁents with
hypomymidjsm or as a pituitary thyroid-sﬁmul-atinghormone (T SH) suppressant in the neatmcnt or
prevention of various types of emhymid guitars (thyroid is ﬁmcﬁoning normally but enlarged). In
excessive amounts, it increases metabolism and irritability ofthe heart and should therefore be used
with great caution in patients with known cardiovascular disease and the elderly. Symptoms of
thyroid hormone toxicity include: chest pain, palpitations, cardiac arrhythmia: (imagularity of
heartbeat), increased pulse late and bland pressure, sweating, nervousness, hﬁat intolerance, weight
loss, and insomnia

5. Cytomel (liothyronine stadium), is deﬁned as a legend drug by Section 465.003(7),
Florida Statutes. This drug enhances oxygen consumption by most tissues of the body, increases
basal metabolic rate, and the metabolism of carbohydrates, lipids, and proteins and therefore it
exerts a profound inﬂuence on every organ system. It is used as a thyroid replacement or
supplement and is indicated for simila: conditions as Synthroid with the same cautions and adverse
effects.

6. On or about September 15, 1992, Patient J.C., a forty-niue year old female, was
admitted 10 Eglin Hospital at Einn Air Force Base (AFB), with compIainL's of m (2) near
syncopal episodes (sudden fall in blood pressure leading to 1055 ofaonsciousness) which resulted
in Patient J.C. falling to her kneés. Patient J.C. reported her daily dosage of Synthroid as 06313
[600mcg) per day and scum free T4 level was greater than 6.0 with the normal range being 0.? -

1.8ngde and TSH was less than .03 with the normal range being 0.32 - 5.00u1'UImJ which

- indicate excessive dosages of Synthroidr Admitting diagnosis was syncope and malaise (feeling
of general discomfort or uneasiness) 'secondgryl'to poiypharmacy. Patient 1C. was taken off all
medications, “did very well," and was discharged on or about September 13, 1992.

7. Respondent failed to practice medicine with the acceptable level of care in that
Respondent inappropriately overprescribed Synthroid in excess of that indicated by laboratory
results and endangered Patient J.C.'s health. The inappropriate over-prcscﬁbing of Synthroid by
Respondent was a dixect cause of Patient J .C.'s admission to Egljn AFB hospital.

3. Respondent failed to practice medicine with the acceptable level of cm in am
ReSpondent failed to obtain consultation with an endocrinologist prior to prescribing large doses
of Synthroid.

9. On or about November 13, 1992, Patient V.G., a ﬁfty-fou: year old female, was
admitted to the Intensive Care Unit at Egl'm AFB hospital with complaints of palpitations, chest
pain, diaphoresis (perspiration), and dyspnea (shortness of breath). Diagnosis Was atrial
ﬁbrillation secondary to excessive Synthroid dosage. Patient V.G.'s daily dosage of Synthroid is
documented as 0.4 mg. (400mcg} per day and serum ﬁ'ec T4 lave! was reported as 3.36 ng/dl
(high) and TSH was less than .029 UIUfmJ (low) which indicate excessive dosages of Synthroid.

ll]. Resmndent failed to practice medicine with the acceptable level of care in that
Respondent inappropriately ovéxprcscﬁhcd Synthroid in excess of that indicated by laboratory
results and endangered Patieﬁt V.G.'s health. The Hover-prescribing of Synthroid was a
contributing cause to Patient V.G‘s admission to Eglin AFB hospital. _

I]. On or about Decerﬁber 7, 1992, an ofﬁcer at Egﬁn AFB sent a letter informing

Reapondcnt that multiple patients were tacing treated with Synthroid in dosages above the

- . ., ..._

- maximum level and requesting justiﬁcation in the form of literary references supporting the use
of Synthroid in this manner. Per Eglin AFB techrds, no reSponse was received from Respondent.
Following this Ietter, on or about December 6, 1993, a pharmacist at Eglin AFB noted
Respondent converted some patients from Synthroid In Cytomel.

12. 111 an Outpatient Pharmacy Drug Utilization Review at Egh'h AFB which documents
prescriptions ﬁlled at the main pharmacy, satellite pharmacy, and Huriburt clinic and pharmacy,
for the period of about September 1993 through March 1994, ReSpondent presu-ibed sixty—nine
percent (69%) of all Cytomel diapensed. The Drug Utilization Review included apprmdmately
300 — 400 (three to four hundred) military and civilian physicians.

13. On or about December 3, 1993. Patient M.R., a seventy-fou: year old male, was
admitted to Eglin AFB hoslaital with the complaint of sudden onset of chest pain aﬁer moving
ﬁlmiture and admitting diagnosis was myocardial infarction. Patient MR. had a history of
hypertension, gout, and Hashimoto's th}1'oiditis (autoizmnune inﬂammation of the thyroid gland}.
On admission, Patient M.R.’s normal dosage of Synthroid is documented as 0.25 mg. (ZSDmcg)
per day and serum free T4 1evel was 3.04 ngfdl (high) and TSH was 10v.r at less than .029 uIUfml.

14. Medical records maintained by Respondent do not justify the course of treehnent
with high doses of Symthroid.

15. Data reported ﬂow the pharmacy at Eglin AFB shows that Respondent prescribed
Synthroid to one hundred and three (103) patients during and about the period ofMarch 1993 to
December 1993. Approximatelf eighty-Iﬁne (89) patiehts‘. had serum free T4 levels drawn and
tested at the ho5pita1 during that same period and appmﬁmately sixty (60) of the patients, or

' 57%, were thyrotoxic.

.r. .. ,‘_ .,_.

16. Respondent failed to practice medicine with the acceptable level of care in that
Respondent failed to appropriately diagnose_Pz-1"tient MR. as euthyroid, a condition which does
not need supplementation therapy.

1?. Respondent inappropriately prescribed thyroid for Patient M.R.'s condition of
euthyroid and did not take into account the known cardiac risk factms.

COUNT ONE

18. Petitiohzr reallcgcs and incorporates paragraphs one (1) thmugh seventeen (17}, as if
fully set foth herein this Count One.

19. Respondent failed to practice medicine with the acceptabie level of care in that
Respcmdent faiIed to obtain consultations with an endocrinologist, endangered the health of
Patient 1C. and Patient V.G. by over—prescribing Synthroid, and failed to take into account the
dangers of prescribing Synthroid in Patient MR. as. related to his age and known cardiac risk
factors.

20. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section 458.33l(l)(t), Florida Statutes,
gross or repeated malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill, and
treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable
under simﬂar conditions and circumstances.

COUNT TWO

2}. Petitionér manages and inccrparates paragraphs‘one [1) through seventeen (l7) and
paragraph nineteen {19) as if fully set forth herein this Count Two.

- 22. ResPQndeht failed to maintain medical records that justify the course of treatment

with high doses of Synlhruid.

23. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section 458.331{l)(m), F Iorida Statutes,
failing to keep mitten medical records justifying the course oftreatmeut of the patient, inCIuding,
but not limited to patient histories; examination results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed,
or édministered; and reports of consultations and heapitalizations.

COUNT THREE

 

24. Petitioner malteges and incorpomtes paragraphs one (I) through seventeen (17},
paragraph nineteen (19}, and paragraph twenty-two (22) as if fully set forth herein this Cohnt
Three. -

25. ResPGndent prescribed, diSpensed, administered, mixed, or otherwise prepared a
legend drug other than in ' the course of his professional practice in that Respondent:
inappropriately prescribed excessive amounts of Synthmid 1:0 Patient LC. and Patient v.6. which
endangered the health ofpatients and led to theh admission to the hDSpitaJ and was also a direct
cause of Patient M.R.'s admisaion to the hospital.

26. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent violated Section 458.331(l)(q), Florida

Statutes, by prescribing, disPensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing a legend chug,

WHEREFORE, the Peﬁtioner respectfully requests the Board of Medicine enter an order
imposing one or more of the following penalties: permanent revocatioin or suspension of the
Respondent’s license, reshic'tioh of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an adminj-shative
ﬁne, issuance of a reprimand, ﬁlacement-of the Respondent on inrohation, the assessment ofcosts

related to the investigation and prosecution of this case, other than costs associated with an

A -|. ----

' attofney’s time, as provided for in Section 455.6248), Florida Stames, andfor any other relief

that Lhc Board deems appmpriate.

SIGNED this ’7 day of 4% @E , 1997.

James T. Howell, M.D., Secretary

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.
ChichedicaJ Attorney

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Lan'y G. McPherson, Jr.

ChiefMedical Attorney

Agency for Health Care Administration

P. 0. Box 14229

Tallahassee, Florida 323 I 7-4229 F ‘LED

Flo 'daB # 738643
Rngcal Br 1:.E'F’i’f‘mﬁliwT gEEﬁALTH
PCP: July31,1997 5" ‘ ‘Duw

PCP Members: Ashkar, Chcmey CLEHK ”a ‘

STATE OF FLORIDA
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTNIENT OF HEALTH,

Petitioner,

AHCA CASE NO. 94436110
ALLAN LEE FEDOSKY, M.D.,

Respondent.
1‘

Allan Lee Fedosky, MD, referred to as the "Respondent," and Department of Health,
referred to as "Department of Health” stipulate and agree to the Following Agreement and to the
anry 01‘ a Final Order of Lhe Board of Medicine, Deferred to 33 "Board,” incorporating the
Stipulaled Facts and Stipulated Disposition in this matter.

EfrecLive July 1, 1997, Petilicmer is the state agency charged with regulating the practice
of medicine pursuant to Section 20.43, Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes= and
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes. Pursuant 10 the provisions of Section 2043(3), Florida Statutes,
the Petitioner has contracted with the Agency Fer Health Care Administrmion to provide
consumer complaint, investigative, and prosecutorial services required by the Division of

Medical Quality Assurance, councils, or boards, as appropriate.

STIPUI.-ATED FACTS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a Hccnsad physician in the State of
Florida having been issued license number ME 0029230.

2. The Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint ﬁled by the
Department and properly served upon the Respondent with a violation of Chapter 453, Florida
Statutes, and the rules enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of The Administrative
Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of fact contained in the
Administrative Complaint.

STIPULATED CONCLUSIQLIS OF LAW

1. The Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed physician, he is subject to
the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458, Fiorida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of' the Department and
the Board.

2, The Rtspondenl admits that the facts set forth in the Administrative Complaint: if
proverl, would cnnsLilute EL violation of Chapter 458, Floﬁda Statutes, as alleged in the
Administrative Complaint.

3. Respondent admits that the Stipulated Disposition in this case is fair, appropriate

and acceptable to Raspundem.

STE PU I_.ATED DISPOSITION

l. P_UTURE CONDUCT. The Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapters
455. 458 and 893, Florida: Statutts, or the rules: prumulgated pursuant thereto. Prior to signing this
agreement: the Respondent shall read Chapters 455, 458, 893 and the Rules of the Board of
Medicine, at Scciinn 6488, Florida Administrative Code.

2. m The Board shall impose an administrative ﬁne in the amount of $5000.00
dollars against the Respondent. T ht: ﬁne shall be paid by The Respondent to the Board 01‘ Medicine
within one (1) year of its imposition by Final Order of the Board. THE RESPONDENT
ACKNU‘WLEDGES THAT THE TFMELY PAYMENT OF THE FINES IS HIS LEGAL
OBLIGATION AND RESPONSIBILITY AND THE RESPONDENT AGREES TO CEASE
PRACTICING IF THE FINE IS NOT PAID AS AGREED TO LN THIS CONSENT
AGREEMENT, SPECIFICALLY: IF THE RESPONDENT HAS NOT RECEIVED
WRITTEN CONFIRMATION THAT THE FULL AMOUNT OF THE FINE HAS BEEN
RECEIVED BY THE BOARD OFFICE WITHIN ONE [1) YEAR OF THE FILING OF
THIS FINAL ORDER, THE RESPONDENT AGREES TO CEASE PRACTICE UNTIL
SUCH WRITTEN CONFIRMATION IS RECEIVED BY THE RESPONDENT FROM
THE BOARD. {SEE EXHIBIT B. PARAGRAPH E OF THIS CONSENT AGREEMENT
FOR BOARD ADDRESS AND STANDARD TERMS).

3. Regrimand, Respondent shall receive a reprimand from the Board of Medicine.

4. USF Drug Course, Respondent shall complete the course, ”Protecting Your Medical

Practice. CiinicaL Legal and Eihicai Issues in Prescribing Abuqahle Drugs,” sponsored by the

Florida Medical Association and the University of South Florida, or a Board-apprtwed equivalent,
within twelve (12) months of the date of the Fmal Order in ﬂlis case. The Board conferg authority
on the Chairman of the Pmbationer’s Committee to approve or disapprove said continuing
education hours. In addition, Respondent shah submit documentation in the form of certiﬁed
copies of the receipts, vouchers, certiﬁcates, or other papers, such as physician's recognition
awards, documenting enmpietion of these medical education courses within twelve (I2) months of
the ﬁling 0fthe Final Order incorporating this Agreement. All such documentation shall he sent to
the Board 01' Medicine. regardless of whether some or am of such documentation was previouslv
grovided during the course of am: audit or discussion with counsel for the Agecnv. These hours
shall he in addititm to those required for renewal of licensute. Unless oﬂlerwise approved by the

Bean], said continuing medical education cotuscs shall consist of a live, lecture format.

5. Qualitx Assurance Review: The Respondent shall contact a qualiﬁed Risk Manager
for the purpose ofreviewing the Respondent’s practice within 90 days of the imposition of the
Final Order of the Board. The consultant’s report shall be submitted to the Board of Medicine
whim] six (6] months of imposition of the Final Order of the Board. At the time the Respondent
submits the consultant’s report, he shall also submit veriﬁcation that he has implemented any

recommendations made concemhtg his practice in the report. The Quality Assurance Review shall

 

cover the Respondent’s medical records, and hiring practices, and medical ofﬁce management, to
be sure he is in compliance with all laws and regulations that affect the practice ei'medicine in
Florida. The Quaiity Assumnce Review shall he completed and tumed in lo the Board of Medicine

within six (6) months of the ﬁling of the Final Order ofthe Board.

THE RESPONDENT ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE TIMELY PRESENTATION
OF THE QUALITY ASSURANCE REVIEW IS HIS LEGAL OBLIGATION AND
RESPONSIBILITY, AND 'l‘l-[E RESPONDENT AGREES TO CEASE PRACTICING IF
THE QUALITY ASSURANCE REVIEW' IS NOT COMPLETED AND PRESENTED TO
THE BOARD OF NEEDICINE WITHIN SIX (6} MONTHS OF THE FILING OF THIS
FINAL ORDER. IF THE RESPONDENT HAS NOT RECEIVED WRITTEN
CONFIRMATION THAT THE QUALITY ASSURANCE REVIEW HAS BEEN
RECEIVED BY THE BOARD OF MEDICINE WITHIN SIX (6) MONTHS OF THE
FILING OF THIS FINAL ORDER. THE RESPGNDENT AGREES TO CEASE
PRACTICE UNTIL SUCH WRITTEN CONFIRMATION IS RECEIVED BY THE
RESPONDENT FROM THE BOARD.

6. Continuing Medicaf Education, Within one year of the date 01' the ﬁling of a Final
Order in lhis causc, ReSpundent shaﬂ attend ten {10) hum; of Continuing Medical Education
(CME), in internal medicine, wim an emphasis on Thyroid Disorders. Remondem shall submit a
written plan To the Chairman of the Board for approval prior to the completion of said continuing
education hours and course. The Board confers authority on the Chairman of the Board to approve
or disapprove said continuing education hours or course. In addition, Respondent shall submit
documentation in the form of certiﬁed copies of the receipts, vouchers, certiﬁcates, or other papers,
such as physician's recognition awards, documenting completion oi'Lhis medical course withhl one
(1) year of Lhe entry ofﬂm Final Order in this matter. All such domunenLation shall be sent 10 the

Board of Medicine. regardless of whether some or any 0? such documentation was Dreviouslv

provided during the course of am! audit or discussion with counsel for the Degaﬂmem. T hese
hours shall be in addition to these hours: required for renewal of iieensure. Unless otherwise

approved by the Board, said continuing medieai education course shall consist of a formal, live

lecture format.

 

AJ

7. PROBATION ' ‘

 

 

 

"eetive en the date of the ﬁling of the Final Order incorporating

 

the terms of this Agreement: Respondent‘s license to practice medicine shall be placed on probation
for a period of one (1) year. The purpose of probation is net to prevent the Respondent from
practicing medicine. Rather, probation is a supervised educational experience designed by the
Board to make the Respondent aware ofeertain obligations to his patients and the profession and to
insure Respondent‘s continued compliance with the high standards of the profession through
interaction with another physician in the appropriate ﬁeld of expertise. T 0 this end, during the
period of‘prebation, Reapnndent shall comply with the foltowing obligations and requirements:
A. RESTRICTIONS DURING PROBATION. During the period of probation,
Re5ponde11t's license shall be restricted as feilews:
it INDIRECT SUPERVISION. Respondent shall practice only under the
indirect supervision ofa Board-appreved physician, hereinaﬁer referred to as the "monitor." In this
negard1 Respondent shall allow the monitor access to Respondent's medical records, calendar,
patient logs or other documents necessary for the monitor to supervise Respondent as detailed
below.
3). Respondent shall utilize sequentially numbered triplicate

prescriptions.

b). Respondent shall immediately provide one copy of each prescription
10 the monitora’supen’isor. See monitorr'supewisor‘s reporting requirement regarding these
prescriptions, below.

c). Respondent shall immediately place one copy ot‘each prescription in
a separate ﬁle that shall be available during ofﬁce hours for inspection on a random and
lmarmmmced basis by the Department's investigator.

d), The Respondent shall submit with his quarterly report 10 [he Board a
wﬁtten summarized list of all of the triplicate prescriptions Mitten by him during the previous
month to the Board ofﬁce at the following address: Board of Medicine, 1940 North Monroe Street,
Tallahassee, Florida 32399. The list shaft include the prescription number, the name of the patient
who received ﬁle presuription, a very brief reason for the prescription, Ihe dmg prescribed, the date
prescribed, and The quantily and strength prescribed.

e). Respondent shall maintain a list containing the name of each and
every patient seen by him. He shall note these patients to whom he prescribes, dispenses or
administers synthetic hormones. The Respondent shall include an updated list in his quarterly
report to the Board.

B. OBLIGATIONSREQLHREMENTS OF PROBATION. During the period of
probation. Resmndent shall comply with the following obligations and requirements:
1. Respondent shalt appear before the Probation Committee of the Board of
Medicine at the ﬁrst Committee meeting after probation commences; at the last meeting ofthe

Committee preceding scheduled termination ofthe probation; quarterly; and at such other times as

