 

STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION V _
BOARD OF MEDICINE FmiIOIderNoTAHCA-Nmé Dmﬂﬂét,

 

. FEED
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE Agency for ﬂu»- c... Mm ‘nuum' l
ADMINISTRATION, BOARD OF ’ SﬂﬂmeCLuw
. . c Age y Clerk
MEDICINE, . aw
Deputy Agency Clerk Y
Petitioner, ' ‘
v. AHCA CASE NOS. 94—05356
94—17085
94—17037
94—17143
LICENSE NO. ME 0052183
STEVEN CHASE BRIGHAM, M.D.,
Respondent. ‘
/ I
ELHAL_QBQEE

THIS CAUSE came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(2), Florida Statutes, on June 7, 1996,'ih Miami:
Beach, Florida, for consideration of the Amended Administrative
Complaint (attached hereto as Exhibit A) in the ahove—styled cause.
At the hearing, Petitioner was tepresented by Larry G. McPherson,
Jr., Chief Medical Attorney. Respondent was present iand
tepresented by Elizabeth Alsobrook, Esquire. The parties have been
properly noticed of the hearing. Based upon the Hearing officer’s
Orders of February 28, 1996 and May 3, 1996 and the Motion fOr
Final Order, an informal hearing will be held pursuant to Section .».e
120.57(2), Florida Statutes. Accordingly, the material issues of
fact are not contested. Upon consideration of the Amended-‘
Administrative Complaint filed against Respondent, Motion for Final'
Order, the pleadings of the parties, orders of the Hearing officer
filed in this matter and the arguments presented, and having been ' '
otherwise fully advised in its premises, the Board of Medicine

1

 

:~m

makes the following findings and conclusions:
G ON R SPO DENT’S P RY RS
1. Respondent made an Oral Motion in opposition to an informal

hearing and requested that the Board remand the case to the Hearing

Officer to reconsider her order finding no material issues of fact

Jin dispute. The Respondent's Motion is Denied.l The Board

considered Respondent’s argument on the procedural hatters leading

to the Hearing officer's action and Petitioner's argument that the
Hearing Officer’s action comported with the requirements of law.
2. Respondent made an oral Motion in opposition to adopting

the findings of fact based upon additional information in the form

of a Recommended Decision of New Jersey Administrative Law Judge,:

Joseph F. Fidler. The Respondent's Motion is Denied. The record
reflects that this additional information from New Jersey was
previously considered by the' Hearing officer and the Hearing
officer had denied Petitioner'é Motion to reconsider the arder
finding no material issues of fact in dispute.

FINDINGS or; g 5g:

1. on March 7, 1996, the Agency for Health Care
Administration filed an Amended Administrative Complaint against
Steven Chase Brigham, M.D., seeking to take disciplihe2§ actien
against his license to practice medicihe in the state of Florida.

2. The Board adopts as its findings, of fact those
allegations which were deemed admitted by the Hearing Officer in

finding that there were no material issues of fact in dispute,

attached hereto as Exhibit B and incorporated herein by reference.

 

29. On or about December 26, 1994, Petitioner received a..
letter from Respondent's attorney which advised Petitioner of the:
revocation at Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the

state at New York. -

30. On or about February 3, 1994, the state of New Jersey
Department at Law and Public Safety, Division or Consumer Affairs,
Board 01' Medical Examiners, determined that Respondent's
unrestricted practice palpably demonstrated a clear and imminent
danger to the people 6: the state of New Jersey and ordered that
Respondent may not initiate or particigate in second trimeeter
abortions, including the insertion of laminaria £0: purposes of
cervical dilatation preceding evacuation of ther 'uteru's, and I
Respondent shall retain, at his expense, a supervise: acceptable “to
the Board, who shall review Respondent’s patient Irecords no less
often than semi-nonthly to assure Respondent's compliance with New
Jersey law, and Respondent shall cause the supervisor to file a >
report with the Board on a monthly basis. Said order was based
upon the Respondent's actions listed below in Paragraphs thirty-one
(31) through forty-one (41).

31. In or about July 1992, a twenty—two (22) year-old patient -
who was approximately twenty-two (22) to twenty—three‘ (23) weeks
pregnant with an intrauterine fetal gemise presented to Respondehtf—
for an abortion.

32. Respondent commenced the abortion proeedure by inserting

‘laminaria into the cervix for dilatation and instructing the

patient to return the following day.

33. The patient returned the next day, whereupon Respondent»

inserted additional laminaria. Despite the rupturing of the:

patient's nembranes following the insertion of the laminaria,
Respondent sent the patient home with instructions to take oral
antibiotics and to go to New York the following day where
Respondent would complete the abortion. Respondent failed to
follow the generally accepted medical standard of admitting the
patient to the hospital and instead sent her home. ‘

34. The patient developed an infection that evening and was
admitted to a hospital via the emergency room.

35. A fourteen (14) year-old patient presented to Respondent
for a termination of her pregnancy. I

36. Respondent administered an excessive amount of sedatioh
to the patient and placed a handful of gauze in the patient's mouth
during the procedure. I

37. liter administration of the sedation which was twice the
normal dose of Fentanyl and 0t Versed, the staff had difficulty
arousing the patient and her heart rate was 116-120 beats per
minute.

38. Respondent performed an abortion on a patient who was _at
eleven (11) to twelve (12) weeks since her last menstruel period.

39. The day following the procedure, the patient complained
of significant pain in her abdomen.

4o. Respondent saw the patient two (2) days following the

procedure, performed a vaginal examination, stated she had a slight

infection, gave her antibiotics, and told her to.return in two (2)
weeks.

41. The patient subsequently presented to a hospital
emergency room with complaints of severe abdominal pain, and was
subsequently found to have an abscess which- may have been'caueed by
a perforation of the uterus during the abortion. I

42. On or about July 18, 1994, Petitioner received a letter;
tron Respondent's attorney which advised Petitioner of interim
action taken against Respondent's license to practice medicine in
the state of. New Jersey. - a

43. Respondent failed to report said suspension, to the Board
of Medicine within thirty (30) days of the suspension oi-dered
against his license to practice medicine in the state of New Jersey
by the state of New Jersey Department of Law and Public Safety,
Division of Consumer Affairs, Board of Medical Examiners;

44. ”on or about December .14, 1994, Respondent appeared before
the state ot_ New Jersey Department of Law and Public sefety,
Division of Consumer Affairs, Board of Medical Examiners, and
offered to cease practicing medicine and surgery in the: state of

New Jersey . - _ ‘ -

45. The state of New Jersey Department of Lamend Public_.._.

Safety, Division of Consumer Affairstoard of' Medical Examiners,
accepted Respondent's offer to cease practicing medicine Ianci
surgery in the state or: New Jersey.

46. On or about January 13, 1995, the State of New Jersey .

Department of Law and Public Safety, Division of Consumer Affairs,

Board at Medical Examiners, ordered that Respondent refrain from _
the practice of medicine and surgery in the sthte of New Jersey:
effective December 14, 1994.

47. Section 458.319(5), Florida statutes,_provides, in part:

The licensee Inst have on file with the department the address of
his primary place of practice within this state prior to engaging
in that practice.

‘8. Pursuant to Rule 61-6.005, Florida Administrative code;
it shall be the duty or the licensees, active and inactive, to keep
the Department informed of any information which the Department
requires, including but not limited to his/her current mailing
address. 7 I

49. Section 458.320(7), Florida statutes provides:

Any licensee who relies on any
exemption from the financial
responsibility requirement shall
notify the department,1n writing,
of any change or circumstance
regarding his- qualifications for
such exemption and shall demonstrate
that he is in compliance with the
requirements of this section.

50. Pursuant to Section 59R~12.005(3), Florida Administrative
Code, each licensee must notify the board in writing of any change

of status relating to financial tesponsihility cqppiiance or

exemption at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the change.
r
51. Rule 59R-12.007, Florida Administrative Code, provides,

in part:
A licensee who has claimed an
exemption based on the fact that,
although an active license has been]
maintained, the licensee has not'
been practicing medicine in Florida

10'

must, before initiating or resuminé ~
the practice of medicine in this > ,
state, notify the Agency of the ‘
intent to practice in the state and

show compliance with the

requirements or the financial

responsibility law or show exemption

therefrom in the manner set forth in

Rule 59R-12.005, Florida

Administrative Code. .

52. As of on or about September 1, 1994, Respondent had on
tile with Petitioner and the Board of Medicine a practice address
and a mailing address located in New Jersey.

53. In addition, Respondent had indicated on his renewal for ,
licensure completed on or about March 22, 1994, that he was exempt
from the financial responsibility requirements due to his not
practicing in the state or Florida. Respondent expressed ho
intention to practice medicine in Florida to either Petitioner or
to the Board of Medicine.

54. Beginning in or about September, 1994, to on or about.
February 3, 1995, Respondent.provided medical care and performed
terminations of pregnancies at The Ladies Center, Inc., (TLC) in
Pensacola, Florida.

55. Respondent failed to notify Petitioner of his primary-
place of practice within the state of Florida prior to engagihé in
the practice of medicine at TLC. ' L“' " -*4*

56. Respondent's above listed mailing address of record is no
longer valid. ‘Respondent has relocated to Connecticut.

5?. Respondent failed to inform Petitioner of his new mailing

address.

r

11

58. Respondent applied for and was grented a financial'

responsibility exemption based on the fact that he was meintaininq’

an active licensure status in the state of Florida, but he was not
engaging in the practice of medicine in Floridh.

59. Respondent failed to notify Petitioner ih writing of any
change or circumstance regarding his qualitieatiohs for exemption
from financial responsibility.

60. Respondent tailed-to notify Petitioner of his change of
status relating to his financial responsibility compliance at least
ten (10) days prior to the change. ,

61. Respondent failed to notify Petitioner of—his intent to
practice medicine in the state of Florida and show comélianee with
the requirements of the financial responsibility law or shew
exemption therefrom 2:19: to initiating the practice of medicine in
Florida.

22995.22:

62. Petitioner reallegee and incorporates paragraph one (1)
through slxty-one,(61) as if fully set forth herein this Count one.

63. Respondent is guilty of having a license or the authority

to practice medicine revoked, suspended, or otherwise acted

against, including the denial of licensure, by the licensingw_;
authority of any jurisdiction, including its agencies or ~
F e

subdivisions in that Respondent signed a Verification of Voluntary

Retirement and Consent Agreement for Permanent NonhRenewal Qt

License conditional upon the Pennsylvania state Board of Hediclne‘

ceasing an investigation which was being conducted against

12‘

Respondent, in that Respondent's license to practice medicine in“

the state of NewYork was suspended on or about January 3, 1994, by:
the state or New York Department of. Health, State Board for
Professional Medical Conduct, and was subsequently revoked on or
about August 12, 1994, and in that Respondent's license to practice
Iedicine 1n the State of New Jersey was restricted by the’state of
New Jersey Department of Law and Public Safety, Division of
Consumer Affairs, Board at Hedieal Examiners, on or about Februaﬁ

3, 1994 .

64. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section

458.331(1)(b), Florida statutes. having a license or/ the authority

to practice medicine revoked, suspended, or otherwise acted ‘

against, including the denial of licensure, by the licensing

authority of any jurisdiction, including its agencies or

subdivisions. The licensing authority's acceptance or a

physiciaa's relinquishment of a license, stipulation, consent 6

order, or other settlement, offered. in response to 'or in

anticipation of the filing of administrative charges against the

physician's license, shall be construed as action against the

physician's license. ~ _
c Tue ‘

65. Petitioner realleges and theorporates Paragraphs one (1) .
through sixty—one (61), and sixty-three (63) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

66. Respondent is guilty of failing to report to the board,’

in writing, within thirty (30) days if action defined in Section

13 ,

 

458.331(1)(b), Florida statutes, has been taken against one's"

license to practice medicine in another state, territory, of

country in that on or about April 28, 1992, the Pennsylvania state

Board of Medicine, ordered that Respondent's unrestricted license
to practice medicine and surgery in the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania be placed on permanent inactive statuh and Respondent
tailed to notify Petitioner of same, in that Respondent's licenee
to practice medicine in the state of New York was ordered suspended
on or about January 3, 1994, and Respondent tailed to notify
Petitioner of same until on or about July 18, 1994, and in that
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the-state of New
Jersey was restricted on or about February 3, 1994, and Respondent
failed to notify Petitioner of same until on or- about July 18,
1994.

67. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(kk), Florida Statutes, failing to report to the board,-
in writing, within 30 days if action as defined in paragraph (b)
has been taken against one's license to practice medieine in
another state, territory, or country.

gong; Ihggo - .

68. Petitioner realleges and incorporates Paragpaphs one (1),,“
through sixty—one (61), sixty-three (63), and sixty-six (66) as if
fully set forth herein this Count Three.

69. Respondent is guilty of violating any provision of this

chapter, a rule of the board or department, or a lawful order of-

~

the board or department previously entered in a disciplinary

14'

hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully issued subpoena of the '

department in that Respondent failed to notify Petitioner of his-

primary place or practice within the state of Florida prior to
engaging in the practice of. medicine at TLC in violation of Section
453.319(5). Florida statutes. '

70. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section

458.331(1)(x), Florida statutes, violating any provision of this

chapter, a rule of the-board or department, or a lawful order of
the board or department previously entered in a disciplinary
hearing or tailing to couply with a lawfully issued subpoena of the
department.

mm

71. Petitioner realleges and incorporates Paragraphs one (1)
through sixty-one (61), sixty-three (63), sixty-six (66), and
sixty—nine (69) as if fully set forth herein this Count li‘our.

72. Respondent is guilty. of violating any provision of this
chapter, a rule or the board or department, or a _lawful order of
the board or department previously entered in _a disciplinary
hearing or tailing to comply with a lawfully issued subpoena of the
department in that Respondent failed to inform Petitioner of his

new mailing address in violation of Section 61-6.Q9§, Florida”

Administrative Code. F

73. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section-
458.331(1)(x), Florida statutes, violating any provision of this
chapter, a rule of the board or department, or a lawful order of

the board or department previously entered in a disciplinary

15’

hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully issued subpoena or the-

department.

991mm

74. Petitioner realleqes and 1ncorporates_Paragraphs one (1)
through slxty-one (61), sixty-three (63), sixty-six (66), sixty-
nine (69), and seventy-two (72) as it fully set forth herein this
Count Five.

75. Respondent is guilty of violating any provision of thit
chapter, a rule or the board or department, of a lawful order or
the board or department previously entered in ,a disciplingry
hearing or falling to comply with a lawfully issued subpoena of the
department in that Respondent failed to notify Petitioner tin
writing of any change or circumstance regarding his qualificatiods
for exemption from financial responsibility in violation of Section
458.320(7), Florida statutes, in that Respondent failed to notify
Petitioner‘ of his change of status relating to his financial 7,
responsibility compliance at least ten (10) days prior to the
change in violation of Section 59R-12.005(3), 'Florida
Administrative Code, and in that Respondent failed t5. notify
Petitioner of his intent to practice medicine in the statg_pf
Florida and show compliance with the requirements oﬁ.thg finah91a1‘_*
responsibility law or show exemption therefrom 2:19: to initiating
the practlcé of medicine in Florida {h violation of Section 59R;
12.007, Florida Administrative Code.

76. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section '

458.331(1)(x), Florida Statutes, Violating any provision of this

16’

 

"I

The Amended Administrative Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit

A and incorporated herein by reference.

BQLIHG 0H BE§EEQENI’S EXCEEELQN 10 CONCLU§IONS OE MW

Respondent's oral Motion that the violations alleged in the

Amended Administrative Complaint are not supported by competent,

’Wsubstantial evidence is Denied.

ICONCQUSIOHS OE QW

1. The Board has jurisdiction over the parties and subject
matter of this case pursuant to Section 120.57(2), Florida Statutes
I

and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes. :

2. Based upon the foregoing Findings of Faét, Respondent

violated Sections 458.331(1)(b), (kk), (x), Florida Statutes and.

having determined that violations exist, it is appropriate for the
Board to impose disciplinary action against the license of Steven

Chase Brigham, M.D.

QISPOSITLON _
WHEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED and ADJUDGED that Respondent

has violated Sections 458.331(1)(b), (kk), (x), Florida Statutes,

the Respondent shall receive the following penalty:

The Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of

.

Florida is hereby REVOKED.
p
The Respondent’s request for STAY in this matter is DENIED.

The Board finds that the Respondent did not offer any compelling
reason to grant said STAY, rather, the Respondent advised the Board

that he does not now practice in Florida nor does he have any

intent to do so.

chapter, a rule of the board or department, or a lawful order of'

the board or department previously entered in a disciplinary’

hearing or tailing to comply with a lawfully issued subpoena of the
department. _

HHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an order imposing one or more of the following
. penalties: permanent revocation or suspension of the Respondent'e
license, restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative tine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probatiOn, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

smnno this Z day of _ ﬂaw ‘ ,‘1996‘.

Douglas M. Cook, Director

 
   

 
 

. McPherson, Jr.
Medical Attorney

“i FILED

AGENCYFOR
HEALTH CARE ADMINESTRAHON

’EPUfY ’

    

COUNSEL FOR AGENCY:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr. OATE' 3,:Z.% I ‘

chief Medical Attorney

Agency for Health Care AdministrationF
1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792
Florida Bar #788643

RPC/sdb

PCP: February 16, 1995

Murray, Slade and Varn

17 ,

 

DONE and ORDERED this a day of W , 1996.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

3W . mm

EDWARD A. DAUER, M.D.
VICE-CHAIRMAN '

. MICE
The Parties are hereby notified that they may appeal this

Final Order by filing one copy of a Notice of Appeal with the clerk
of the Agency for Health Care Administration and by filing one copy
of a Notice of Appeal and the appropriate filing fee with the
District Court of Appeal within thirty (30) days of the date this
Final Order is filed.

CEBTIFICAIE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
Final Order has been provided by certified mail t6 Steven Chase
Brigham, M.DZ, 1 Alpha Avenue, Shite 27, Voorhees, New York 08043,
Nathan'L. Dembin, Esquire, NATHAN L. DEMBIN & ASSOCIATES, P.c.,' 225
Broadway, Suite 1905, New York, New York 10007, Elizabeth
Alsobrook, Esquire, 924 Gadsden Street, Tallahassee, Florida and by
interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., chief Medical

Attorney, Agency for Health Care Administration, 1940 Noth Monroe

Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, at or before 5:00 p.m.,

this 5 :3 day of , 1996.

     

Harm Harris, Ed.D.
Executive Director

4",H“ . 5'/“1(a

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE

ADMINISTRATION,
_K, PETITIONER,
, vs. CASE NOS. 94-05356
' 94-17085
94-17087
94-17143

.STEVEN CHASE BRIGHAH, H.D.,

RESPONDENT .
/ ‘ ,

WINE

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Agency for Health Cafe
Administration, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files
this Amended Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against sieven Chase Brigham, H.D., hereinafter referred to as
“Respondent," and alleges: ‘ I

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the
practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.42, Florida Statutes,
Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458. Florida statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all tiqes materfp; heyego a
licensed physician in the State of florida, having been issuea .'
license number KB 0052183. Respondent's lest known address is 1
Alpha Avenue, suite 27, Voorhees, New Jersey, 08043.

3. Respondent is not board certified in any specialty;'

Respondent's education ended in the completion of a one (1) year

/

 

Internal Medicine internship.

4. On or about April 23, 1992, Respondent signed 5

Verification of Voluntary Retirement and Consent Agreement for
Permanent Non-Renewal of License agreeing to voguntary retire from
the practice of medicine in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvenia on the
condition that the state Board of Medicine or the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania cease the investigation being conducted against
Respondent.

5. In signing eeid Verification of Voluntary Retire-ent and
Consent Agreement for Permanent Non—Renewal of License, Respondent
also agreed that his medical license was to be placeq on permanent
inactive status and that he would never apply for reinstatement,
reissuance, reactivation or renewal of his unrestricted’license to
practicemedicine and surgery in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

6. Respondent further agreed that in the future he would not
practice medicine and surgery in any manner within the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania. ‘ -

7. On or about April 28, 1992, the Pennsylvania state Board

of Hedicine, in consideration of the foregoing Verification of

Pennsylvania and Respondent ordered that Respondent's unrestricted
license to praetice medicine and surgery in the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania be placed on permanent inactive status subject to
Respondent's compliance with the terms of the Consent Agreement and

the order, and ordered that Respondent agrees not to eVer apply for.

the reactivation, renewal, reinstatement or reissuance of his:

license or other authorization to practice medicine in the‘

Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

8. On or about January 3, 1994, the state of New York
Depart-ent of Health, state Board for Professional Hedica1 Conduct,
determined that the continued practice of medicineiin the state of
' New York by Respondent constituted an imminent danger to the health
or the people or New York and ordered the immediate suspension or
Respondent's license to practice medicine in the state of New York
based upon the Respondent's actions listed below in paragraphs nine
(9) through twenty-one (21). ‘.

9. From on or about November 10 through Novembet' 11.-1993,
Respondent treated a twenty (20) year-old patient who wes twenty:-
slx (26) weeks pregnant and who presented to Respondent tor the
performance of a termination of her pregnancy.

10. ﬁespondent performed a dilation and evacuation (DEE)
procedure on this patient following the dilatation of the patient's
cervix via the insertion of laminaria.

11. Following performance of the DH: on this patient, the
patient bled profusely internally as a result of lacerations of 'her
lover uterine segment, her uterine artery and the posterior side of._.__.

her uterus . F

12. Respondent failed to recognize the existence and the
seriousness of said lacerations and he attempted to repair the
lacerations 1n the office even though the patient's condition .

required transfer to a hospital.

13 .' The patient was transferred to a hosp_1ta1 approximately
four (4) hours utter the DEE brocedure and she wak-in hypovolemie
shock upon her arrival to the hospital.

14. The patient underwent the performance of an emergency
hysterectomy upon her arrival to the hospital.

15. From on or about May 7 through May 9, 1992, Respondent
treated a patient who was twenty-four and one half (24.5) weeks
pregnant and who presented to Respondent tor the performance ot'a
termination or her pregnancy.

16. Respondent performed a dilation and evacuation (98E)
procedure on this patient following the dilatation of‘ the patient's
cervix via the insertion of laminaria. I

17. During the performance of the 082, Respondent used Hern
forceps to remove a portion of the fetus and the placenta when
omentum was seen by Respondent.

18. ‘Respondeht continued performing the DEE procedure
toliowing perforation of the hatlent's uterue and visualization of

the omentum.

19. The patient Hes subsequently transferred by ambulance to

a hospital and upon arrival was found to be in shock.

20. The patient underwent a laparotomy yhich reveeled that in

using the forceps, Respondent caused an eight (8) to ten (10).

centimeter laceration of the posterior uterus.
21. Respondent perforated the patient's sigmoid colon through
its mesentery which resulted in the patient needing a colostomy.’

In addition, Respondent damaged both of the patient's ureters.

22. On or about April 29, 1994, the ’s_tate of New York-
Department at Health, state Board for Professional Medical Conduct»: H
ordered that the summary order in the matter dated on’ or ebout I
January 3, 1994, shall remain in full force ang effect.

23. on or about July 18, 1994, Petitioner received a letter
from Respondent's attorney which advised Petiti-bner of interim
action teken against Respondent's license to practice medicine in
the state 01' New York... .

24. Respondent feiled to report said suspension to the Board
at Hedieine within thirty (30) days of the suspension ordegred ’
againet his license to practice medicine in the State of New York
by the state of. New York Department of Health, state Board for
Professional Medical Conduct.

25. On or about August 9, 1994, the state of New York
Department of Health, state Board for Professional Medical Conduct,
ordered that Respondent's license to practice medicine in New York
state be revoked due to Respendent being found guilty at gross
negligence and negligence on more than one (1) occasion in
practicing medicine. I

26. The heating Committee who ordered the abovementiqqed
revocation of Respondent's medical license cohcluded the foll‘ox‘vingww
which is stated in the Decision and orger of the hearing Committee:

'Responden't repeatedly exaggerated
his medical training, experience and
skill. Both in the acts established
by the charges herein as well as in
his testimony, Respondent has
demonstrated he lacks appropriate
judgment and insight as to his own
limitations. He routinely displayed

5

 

a tendency to inflate and embellish

the truth. For instance, Respondent

regularly referred to himself as an

emergency room physician. However,

upon further questioning. he

admitted he had not had a residency

in emergency medicine and had never

had a tull-time position in‘ an

emergency room. Ultimately.

Respondent admitted that his

experience and training in emergency

medicine consisted of part-time

positions in various emergency

rooms. In like manner, Respondent

testified that he had "extensive

training" in OB/GYN and abortion.

Respondent testified that his

credentials in abortion procedures:

arose from taking a formal course of - '
study in abortion as offered by '
Planned Parenthood or New York city.
However, he eventually admitted that
he has never done a residency in
OB/GYN. Moreover, Respondent later
admitted that he did not complete
the course in first trimester
abottion practice offered by Planned
Parenthood, nor did he receive the
course certificate. Eventually,
Respondent testified that what he
referred to as special training in
preparation for his activities in
the abortion field consisted of
limited interludes of observation of
other physicians.

27. On or about October 28. 1994, the state of New York
Department of Health Administration, Review Board for Professighal
Medical Conduct, sustained the determination revoking Respondent's
license to practice medicine in the state of New Yorht‘ ». ‘—0

28. Respohdent was notified ofhsald revocation in a letter

dated on or about November 23, 1994, from the State of New York

Department of Health.

