STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE quomnNmAHcaﬁtn4Dme§dzﬁy
, I

AG ENC \' C LERK

R.S. Power, Agcn Clerk
Petitioner, nwjﬁwd ”32,77me

Dcpuly Agency Clark
V. CASE NUMBER: 94-00537
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0053442

PHILIP W. TALLY, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on August 5, 1994 in
Orlando, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement
(attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in
the above—styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent
Agreement, the documents submitted in support thereof, the
arguments of the parties, and being otherwise advised in the
premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall

adhere to and abide by all of the terms and conditions of the

Consent Agreement.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of
the Agency.

DONE AND ORDERED this 6+R day AU$Q$¥ , 1994.
U

BOARD OF MEDICINE

(":51sz (f (éZQMZX/JA MC/J
-- EDWARD A. DAUER, M.D.
CHAIRMAN

 

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Philip W. Tally, M.D.,
5949 17th Avenue West, Bradenton, Florida 34209—7836, and by
interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical
Attorney, Agency for Health Care Administration, Northwood Centre,
1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, at or

before 5:00 P.M., this day of , 1994.

 

HARM M. HARRES, Ed.D.
Executive Director

ybur holes should have occurred on the right side of Patient A.R.’s
head.

20. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(l)(t), Florida Statutes, gross or repeated malpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: permanent revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s
license, restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this {g day of ZgEZZ§Z , 1994.
George Stuar , ecretary
é
Larr G. cPherson, Jr.
Ch' f Medical Attorney

FILED

Department of Business and Profusinnal Regulation
DEUTYCERK

 

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.
Chief Medical Attorney
Department of Business and Professional Regulation
1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399~0792

Florida Bar #738643 Wﬁpﬂﬁu
RPC/sdb <16ng '

PCP: April 20, 1994 5/‘prqtd/

Murray and Varn DATL_;

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL REGULATION,

Petitioner,

v. DBPR CASE NO. 94—00537

PHILIP W. TALLY, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

CONSENT AGREEMENT

 

Philip w. Tally, M.D., referred to as the "Respondent," and
the Department of Business and Professional Regulation, referred to
as "Department," stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and
to the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to
as "Board," incorporating the stipulated Facts and stipulated
Disposition in this matter.

STIPULATED FACTS

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed
physician in the State of Florida, having been issued license
number ME 0053442.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Department and properly served upon Respondent with
violation of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules enacted
pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Amended
Administrative Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the allegations of

fact contained in the Administrative Complaint.

STIPULATED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458,
Florida statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department and the
Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the attached
Administrative Complaint, if proven, would constitute violation of
Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative
Complaint.

STIPULATED DISPOSITION

l. FUTURE CONDUCT. Respondent shall not in the future
violate Chapters 455, 458, and 893, Florida statutes, or the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto. Prior to signing this agreement, the
Respondent read Chapters 455, 458, and 893 and the Rules of the

Board of Medicine in section 61 F6, Florida Administrative Code.

 

2. FINE. The Board shall impose an administrative fine in
the amount of $2,000.00 against the Respondent. The fine shall be
paid by the Respondent to the Board of Medicine within thirty (30)
days of its imposition by Final Order of the Board.

3. OBLIGATIONSZREQUIREMENTS. Under the terms of this
Agreement, Respondent shall attend 10 hours of Category I
Continuing Medical Education in the area of Risk Management.
Respondent shall submit documentation in the form of certified
copies of the receipts, vouchers, certificates, or other papers,
such as physician's recognition awards, documenting completion of

the medical courses within one (1) year of the entry of the Final

(0

Order in this matter. All such documentation shall be sent to the
Board Of Medicine, regardless of whether some or any of such
documentation was previously provided durinq_the course of any
audit or discussion with counsel for the Department. These hours
shall be in addition to those hours required for renewal of
licensure. Unless otherwise approved by the Board, said continuing
medical education courses shall consist of a formal, live lecture
format.

4. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting of
the Board where this Agreement is considered. Respondent, in
conjunction with the consideration of this Agreement by the Board,
shall respond to questions under oath from the Board, Board staff
or Department staff whereby he shall be prepared to discuss and
demonstrate what actions have been taken by him and the hospital
referenced in this particular case to insure that this type of
episode does not reoccur.

5. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by Respondent may be used as direct
evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding; however, such
statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment purposes.

6. Respondent and the Department fully understand that this
joint agreement and subsequent Final Order incorporating same will
in no way preclude additional proceedings against Respondent for
acts or omissions not specifically set forth in the Administrative
Complaint attached as Exhibit "A" herein.

7. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreement, Respondent

expressly waives all further procedural steps, and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Agreement.

8. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will bear his own attorney’s fees and
costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney’s fees or costs
from the Department in connection with this matter.

9. This agreement is executed by the Respondent for the
purpose of avoiding further administrative act;on with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the
Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by
the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or
any of its members from further participation, consideration, or

resolution of these proceedings.

   

ﬂgL
SIGNED this

 

Before me, personally appeared/philip tson Tally, M.D.,

whose identity is known to me by EkaCﬂ/ (type of
identification) and who, under oath, acknowl ges that his

signature appears above.

/ iii; //
Sworn to and subscribed before me €h;§ :2 day of LI/7C2L”

,
1994. /

7€mﬂz M4142

NOTARY PUBLIC

 
 
 

HUHMWEHO
M‘r CDMMISSmN 1 Cd iaul -é FAFIREE
chw 1:. 1955

My Commission Expires: wmmmnmnwﬁmwpw

Approved this 5gé? day of < 1994.

Georg Stuart
Sect ayr ZJ
arr . McE‘herson, Jr.

Chief Attorney

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL
REGULATION,
PETITIONER,
vs. CASE NO. 94—00537
PHILIP WATSON TALLY, M.D.,

RESPONDENT.
/

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

 

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Department of Business and
Professional Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner,"
and files this Administrative Complaint before the Board of
Medicine against Philip Watson Tally, M.D., hereinafter referred to
as "Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency Charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.165, Florida
Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0053442. Respondent’s last known address is 5949
17th Avenue West, Bradenton, Florida 34209~7836.

3. Respondent specializes in neurological surgery.

4. On or about November 26, 1993, Patient A.R., an eighty-

six (86) year—old female, was admitted to L.W. Blake Hospital

(LWBH) with complaints of left—Sided headaches and left extremity
weakness/numbness.

S. A.R. underwent a computed tomograph (CT) scan of the head
which revealed a large right subdural hematoma.

6. Respondent was contacted by Patient A.R.’s primary
physician who had diagnosed Patient A.R. as having a large right
subdural hematoma, and was asked to meet with Patient A.R. in
consultation.

7. Subject examined and evaluated Patient A.R. and concurred

with the diagnosis of a right subdural hematoma.

8. Subject arranged for immediate surgical removal of said
hematoma.
9. Upon Patient A.R.’s arrival to the operating room holding

area, operating room personnel discovered the consent form for
Patient A.R.'s surgery only stated "burr holes.”

10. Subject had told the nurse scheduling the surgery that
Patient A.R.'s surgery would be performed on the left side.

11. Patient A.R. was taken into the operating room and was
prepped by Subject for the performance of left but holes.

12. Subject placed two bur holes in the left side of Patient
A.R’s head without violation of the dura or of any intracranial
contents before he realized that the bur holes had been placed in
error.

13. The two left bur holes were immediately closed and
Subject proceeded to place bur holes on the right side of Patient

A.R.'s head.

14. Subject then evacuated a large subdural hematoma and the
wounds were closed.

Count One

15. Petitioner realleges and incorporates Paragraphs one (1)
through fourteen (14) as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

16. Respondent is guilty of performing professional services
which have not been duly authorized by the patient or client, or
his legal representative in that Respondent failed to adequately
and appropriately identify the type and the location of surgery to
be performed on Patient A.R., thereby resulting in Patient A.R.
consenting to the placement of "burr holes."

17. Based on the foregoing, Subject violated Section
458.331(1)(p), Florida Statutes, performing professional services
which have not been duly authorized by the patient or client, or
his legal representative, except as provided in Section 743.064,
Section 766.103, or Section 768.13, Florida Statutes.

Count Two

18. Petitioner realleges and incorporates Paragraphs one (1)
through fourteen (14), and sixteen (16) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

19. Respondent is guilty of gross or repeated malpractice or
the failure to practice medicine with that level of care, skill,
and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances in that Respondent erroneously placed two but holes

in the left side of Patient A.R.’s head when the placement of said

