 

STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION

BOARD OF "_> i c
Final Order No. AHCA—ae-oosm Dan: 7’/ 5 7%

f H “11C: d ' "rnl'on

‘D III ISIRAIION BOARD OF A cncy Ur ca nrcﬁ nnms I

“EIDICINE I g AGENCY CLERK .
I

.S. owcr, Ag: v‘r’ Cg)”
- - MMA—
Petltloner, quyAymyka

V- CASE NUMBER: 94—07667
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0057902

FREDERICK H. STEVENS, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

FINAL ORDER

 

THIS MATTER came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(3), Florida Statutes, on June 8, 1996, in Miami
Beach, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement (attached
hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the above—
styled case. Upon consideration of the Consent Agreement, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments of the
parties, and being otherwise advised in the premises, the Board
rejected the Consent Agreement proposed and offered an amendment at

the hearing, which amendment was accepted without objection by the

parties.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreement
as submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein with the following amendment:

1” Paragraph 3. of the stipulated Disposition is hereby
deleted.

Accordingly, the parties shall adhere to and abide by all of

the terms and conditions of the Consent Agreement, as amended.

This Final Order takes effect upon filing with the Clerk of

the Agency.

(g+b
DONE AND ORDERED this day , 1996.

 

BOARD OF MEDICINE

mW/ngvﬂwﬁmu
MARY KATHRYN G RETT, M.D.
CHAIRMAN
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
has been provided by certified U.S. Mail to Frederick H. Stevens,
M.D., 3613 Carisbrooke Parkway, Birmingham, AL 35226, Patrick F.
Smith, Esquire, 4 Office Park Circle, Suite 212, Birmingham, AL
35223 and by interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief

Medical Attorney, Agency for Health Care Administration, Northwood

Centre, 1940 North Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792,

at or before 5:00 P.M., this day of

1996.

 

MARM M. HARRIS, Ed.D.
Executive Director

Respondent work in the same office. The supervising physician
shall be board-certified in the Respondent's specialty area unless
otherwise provided by the Board.

c. EROBATIOE COMMITTEE or "committee" are
members of the Board of Medicine designated by the Chairman of the
Board to serve as the Probation Committee.

2 . REQUIRED SQEEE‘JISLON.

a. If the terms of the consent agreement
include indirect monitoring of the liegnsees's practice
(MONITORING) or direct monitoring of the licensees practice
(SUPERVISION), the Respondent shall not practice medicine without
an approved monitor/supervisor, as specified by the Consent
Agreement, unless otherwise ordered by the Board.

b. The monitor/supervisor must be a licensee
under Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, in good standing and without
restriction or limitation on his license. In addition, the Board
or Committee may reject any proposed monitor/supervisor on the
basis that he has previously been subject to any disciplinary
action against his medical license in this or any other
jurisdiction, is currently under investigation, or is the subject
of a pending disciplinary action. The monitor/supervisor must be
actively engaged in the same or similar specialty area unless
otherwise provided by the Board or Committee and be practiciné
within a reasonable distance of the Respondent’s practice, a
distance of no more than twenty (20) miles unless otherwise
specifically provided for in the consent agreement. The Board or
Committee may also reject any proposed monitor/supervisor for good

cause shown.

0000M

C. MECEANISM EOR APPROVAL OF
ﬂONITOR/SUPERVISOR:

(1). IEMPORARY APPROVAL. The Board
confers authority on the Chairman of the Board’s Probatioh
Committee to temporarily approve Respondent's monitor/supervisor.
I To obtain this temporary approval, Respondent shall submit to the
Chairman of the Probation Committee the name and curriculum vitae
of the propoeed monitorfsupervisor at the time this agreement is
considered by the Board. Once a Final Order adopting this
Agreement is filed, Respondent shall not practice medicine without
an approved moniter/superviaor. Temporary approval shall only
remain in attest until the next meeting of tho Probation Cnhmittoa.

[2). EQBHAL_AEBBQHAL- Respondent shall
have the monitor/supervisor with him at hie first probation
appearance before the Probation Committee. Prior to consideration
of the monitor/supervisor by the Committee, the Respondent shall
provide to the monitor/supervisor a copy of the Administrative
Complaint and Final Order in this case. Respondent shall submit a
current curriculum vitae and a description of current practice from
the proposed monitor/supervisor to the Board office no later than
fourteen days before the Respondent's first scheduled probation
appearance. Respondent’s monitor/supervisor shall also appear
before the Probation Committee at such other times as directed by
the Committee. It shall be Respondent's responsibility to ensure
that the appearance of his monitor/supervisor as directed. Failure
of the monitor/supervisor to appear as directed shall constitute a
violation of the terhs of this Stipulation and shall subject the

Respondent to disciplinary action.

UUUDIZ

d. QEAEQE IE ﬂQNlIOElSQEERVISOR. In the

event that Respondent's monitor/supervisor is unable or unwilling
to fulfill his responsibilities as a monitor/supervisor as
described above, then the Respondent shall immediately advise the
Board of this fact. Respondent shall immediately submit to the
Chairman of the Board's Probation Committee the name of a temporary
monitor/supervisor for consideration. Respondent shall not-
practice pending approval of this temporary monitorfsupervisor by
the Chairman of the Probation Committee. Furthermore, Respondent
shall make arrangements with his temporary monitor/superviscr to
appear before the Probation Committee at its next regularly
scheduled meeting for consideration of the monitor/supervisor by
the Committee. Respondent shall only practice under the auspices
of the temporary monitor/supervisor (approved by the Chairman)
until the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Probation
Committee whereat the issue of the Committee's approval of the
Respondent's new monitor/supervisor shall be addressed.
3. CON NUI RA E

a. IQLLIHQ EBOVISIOE . In the event the
Respondent leaves the State of Florida for a period of thirty days
or more or otherwise does not engage in the active practice of
medicine in the State- of Florida, then certain provisions of
Respondent’s probation (and only those provisions of the probation)
shall be tolled as enumerated below and shall remain in a tolled
status until Respondent returns to active practice in the State of

Florida:

ODUOI3

(1). The time period of probation shall
be tolled.

(2). The provisions regarding supervision
whether direct or indirect by another physician, and required
reports from the monitor/supervisor shall be tolled.

(3). The provisions regarding preparation
of investigative reports detailing compliance with this Stipulation

shall be tolled.

(4). Any provisions regarding community

service shall be tolled.

b. AQIIVE ERECTICE. In the_ evant that
Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine for a period of
one year or more, the Probation Committee may require Respondent to
appear before the Probation Committee and demonstrate his ability
to practice medicine with skill and safety to patients prior to

resuming the practice of medicine in this State.

ooooru

STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADHIHISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE
ADMINISTRATION,

PE’I‘ITIONER,
vs. CASE NO. 94—01366?
FREDERICK B. STEVENS, 14.1).

RES PDN DENT .
I

ADHIEIﬁIBAIl!£_£Qﬂ2LﬁIHI

couEs' now the Petitioner, Agency for Health Care
Administration, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
Frederick H. Stevens, H.D. hereinafter referred to as "Respondent,"
and alleges:

1. - Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.165, Florida
statutes; Section 20.42, Florida statutes; Chapter 455, Florida
statutes; and Chapter 453, Florida Statutes.

2.‘ Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licenséa physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number HE 0057902. Respondent‘s last known address is 1?04
Morning Sun Circle, Birmingham, Alabama 35242.

3. Respondent is board certified in family practice.

4. On or about June 7, 1991, Respondent held an office
meeting with the staff of his private practice in Eustis, Florida,

during which he informed his staff that he was cloéing his private

uUwUl‘q

practice. Respondent provided each staff member with a final
paycheck, including two weeks severance pay.

5. On or about June 9, 1991, Respondent resigned from the
medical staff of Waterman Medical Center in Eustis, Florida.

6. On or about June 10, 1991, Respondent left Eustis,
Florida, and moved to’ Birmingham, Alabama.

1. Rule 593-10.002(4} [formerly 61F6-26.002(4j], Florida
Administrative Code, provides that when a licensed physician
terminates practice or relocates and is no longer available to
patients, patients should be notified of such termination or
relocation'and unavailability by the physician's causing to be
published, in a newspaper of greatest general circulation in each
county in which the physician practices or practiced, a notice
which shall contain the date of termination or relocation and an
address at which the records may be obtained from the physician
terminating practice or another licensed physician or osteopathic
physician. In addition, the licensed physician shall place in a
conspicuous location in or on the facade of the physician's office,
a sign, announcing the termination or relocation of the practice.
The sign shall be placed at least thirty days prior to the
termination or relocation of hrectice and shall remain until the
date of termination or relocation. Both the notice and the sign
shall advise the licensed physician's patients of their opportunity
to transfer or receive their records.

8. Respondent failed to provide timely notice, by
publication or by posting a sign at his office, that he was

terminating his practice in Rustin, Florida, and indicating how his
patients could pick up or transfer their records.

9. Respondent violated a rule of the agency in that
Respondent failed to provide the timely notice of termination of
his 'practice as required by Rule 59R-10.002(4}, Florida
Administrative Code.

10“ Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent has
violated Section 458.331t1}(x), Florida Statutes, by Violating any
provision of this chapter, a rule of the board or agency. or a
lawful order of the board or agency previously entered in a

disciplinary hearing or failing to comply with a lawfully issued

subpoena of the agency.

WHEREFDRE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: restriction of the Respondent‘s practice, imposition of
an administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board
deems appropriate. Petitioner is not seeking permanent revocation

or suspension of the Respondent’s license.

SIGNED this {é day of %& M 1994.
Douglas H. C
FILE D

AGENC‘K FOR
HEALTH CARE ADMINlSTHATION

KEEPUTY
0572M

Director

   
    

 

Ch f Medical Attor ey

COUNSEL FOR THE AGENCY:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Chief Medical Attorney

Agency for Health Care Administration
1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0750
Florida Bar {188643

WFW/ceb

PCP: December 12, 1994

Katina, Diblan, Penwick

BTRTE OP ?LORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINIBTRATION

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE
ADMINISTRATION,

Petitioner,

AHCA CASE NO. 91-07657

FREDERICK ﬂ. STEVENS, H.D.

Respondent.

I
couszg: AGREEMENT

Frederick H. Stevens, M.D., referred to as the "Respondent,"
and the Agency for Health Care Administration, referred to as
"Agency," stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and to the
entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicine, referred to as
"Board," incorporating the stipulated Facts and stipulated
Disposition in this matter.

SIIPQLATQD Egggg

1. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed
physician in the State of Florida having been issued license number
ME 0057902.

2. Respondent was charged by an Administrative Complaint
filed by the Agency and properly served upon Respondent with
violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the rules enacted
pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of the Administrative

Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

000003

3. Respondent admits the allegations of fact contained in the

Administrative Complaint for purposes of this proceeding only.
STIPULATED CONCLUﬁlOHS OF IAN

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed
physician, he is subject to the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458,
Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Agency and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the
Administrative Complaint, if proven, Qould constitute violations of

Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative

Complaint.
STIPULALEQ QlSPOSlIION
l. EQEURE CONDUCI, Respondent shall not in the future

violate chapters 455, 458 and 893, Florida statutes, or the rules

promulgated pursuant thereto.

2. EIEE; The Board shall impose an administrativa fine in
the amount of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) against the
Respondent. The fine shall be paid by the Respondent to the Board
of Medicine within BIKTY {60) days of its imposition by Final Order
of the Board. THE RESPONDENT ACKNOWLEDGES TﬁhT TEE TIHBLY PAYMENT

OF THE FINE IS EIBIHER LEGAL OBLIGATION 1ND RESPONSIBILITY AND THE
RESPONDENT AGREES TO CEREE PRACTICING IF THE PINE IS NOT P319 $3
BGREED TO IN THIB CONBBNT AGREEMENT, SPECIFICRLLY: IF THE
RESPONDENT HAS NOT RECEIVED WRITTEN CﬂﬂflnﬂhTION THAT THE FULL
AMOUNT OF THE FINE HAS BEEN RECEIVED BY THE BOARD OFFICE WITHIN 60
DAYS OF THE FILING OF THIS FINAL ORDER, THE RESPONDENT AGREES TO

CELEB PRACTICE UNTIL SUCH WRITTEN CONFIRMATION IE RECEIVED BY THE

IUOUDUh

RESPONDENT FROM THE BOARD. (SEE EXHIBIT B, ?ERAGRAPH 1 OF THIS

CONSENT AGREEMENT FOR BOARD ADDRESS AND STANDARD TEENS).

3. EEPRgnﬁﬂu. The Respondent shall receive a reprimand from

the Board of Medicine.

4. OBLIGATIONSLREQUIREMENTS. The Respondent shall meet the
following obligations/requirements:

1. Respondent shall complete 40 hours of community
service within one (1) year of the date of his returning to medical
practice in Florida. The Respondent shall submit a proposal
regarding community service to the probation committee, and only
community service which has been approved by the probation
committee shall satisfy this requirement.

V ii. Prior to signing this agreement, Respondent read the
pertinent portions of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the Rules
of the Board of Medicine, at Section 59R, Flcrida Administrative
Code. Prior to the meeting of the Board at which this Agreement is
considered, Respondent shall execute an affidavit indicating that
he has read and understands the pertinent portions of Chapter 458
and rule 59R, Florida Administrative Code.

5. STANDARD £30v1810NS. This Agreement shall be governed, to
the extent applicable, by the attached "Standard Terms Applicable
to Consent Agreements,“ Exhibit B, which is incorporated as if
fully set forth herein.

6. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject

to the approval of the Board and the Agency. In this regard, the

foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing paragraphs) shall have

000005

no force and effect unless a Final Order incorporating the terms of
this Agreement is entered by the Board.

7. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting of
the Board on 'June 7-9, 1996, in Miami, Florida. Respondent
acknowledges that it is his responsibility to appear before the
Board at the June 1996 meeting and specifically agrees that if, for
any reason, he does not appear at the June 7-9, 1996, meeting of
the Board of Medicine, hie_}icense £Q_Preggice medicine in the
state of Florida shall be eusgenﬂed ugless and until the Respondent
doeq__ggpgar before the Board of Medicine. Respondent, in
conjunction with the consideration of this Agreement by the Board,
shall respond to questions under oath from the Board, Board Staff
or Agency Staff. Respondent shall be prepared to explain the
circumstances involved in this matter and what measures have been
taken to prevent a recurrence.

8. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in
furtherance of this Agreement by the Respondent may be used as
direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding; however,
such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeachment
purposes;

9. Reepondent and the Agency fully understand that this joint
Agreement and subsequent Final order incorporating same will in no
way preclude additional proceedings by the Board and/or the Agency
against the Respondent for acts or omissions not specifically set

forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit "A"

herein.

000006

10. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreement, Respondent
expressly waives all fﬁrther procedural steps, and expressly waives
all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the
Board incorporating said Agreement.

11. Upon the Board’s adeption of this Agreement, the parties
hereby agree that each party will bear his own attorney’s fees and
costs resulting from prosecution or defense of this matter.
Respondent waives the right to seek any attorney’s fees or costs
from the Agency in connection with this matter.

12. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the
purpése of avaiding further administrative action with respect to
this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative file materials concerning
Respondent prior to or in conjunction with consideration of the
Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be
accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and
consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by
the Board shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or
any of its members from further participation, consideration or

resolution of these proceedings.

000007

87/22/1994 69:58 - 2858783335 STRICLPND SMITH HQGG PAGE 87

SIGNED this .4 3 day of $52 , 19%.

L

Fredar ck Stevens, H.D.

 

Before mg, personally appears REOEQIEK STﬁVEEg 51.4.9. , whose
identity is known to ran by M M»... :ypa of
identification) and who, under oath, acknowle 908 that his/har

signature appanrs above.

Sworn to and subscribed before me

his $371+ day of
_____~réprL____________r 1996-

   
   

NOTRRY PUB IC
My Commission Expires: /0—[z‘f77

RPPROVED this 82 day of $3: , 1996.

Douglas M. Cook
Director

     

G. HcPhérson,
c e: httornsy
Medical Section

UUDUnn

STANDIRD TERMS APPLICABLE TO CONSENT AGREEHENTB

The following are the standard terms applicable to all consent
agreements, including supervision and monitoring provisions
applicable to licensees on probation.

A. EAYMENT OF FINES. Unless otherwise directed by the
consent agreement, all fines shall be paid by check or money order
and sent to the Board address set forth in paragraph E, below. The
Board office does not have the authority to change the terms of
payment of any fine imposed by the Board.

h. COMMUNITY SERVICE ANQ CONTINUING EDUCATION QEIIS.
Unless otherwise directed by the consent agreement, all community
service requirements, continuing education units/courses must be
completed, and documentation of such completion submitted to the
Board of Medicine at the address set forth below in paragraph E,
WITRIN ONE YEAR 0? THE DATE 0? THE FINAL ORDER.

C. ADDRESSES. Respondent must keep current residence
and practice addresses on file with the Board. Respondent shall
notify the Board within ten (10) days of any changes of said
addresses. Furthermore, if the Respondent's license is on
probatinh,_the Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (10)
days in the event that Respondent leaves the active practice of
medicine in Florida.

D. COSTS. Pursuant to Section 458.331(2), Florida
Statutes, the Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply

with the terms of this Consent Agreement. Such costs include, but

000009

are not limited to, the costs of preparation of Investigative
Reports detailing compliance with the terms of the Consent
Agreement, obtaining supervision or monitoring of the practice, the
cost of quality assurance reviews, and the Board's administrative
costs directly associated with Respondent's probation.

E. BOARD ADDRESS, Unless otherwise directed by the
Board office, all fines, reports, correspondence and inquiries
shall be sent to: Board or Hedicine, 1940 North Monroe street,
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, nttn: Final Order Compliance
Otticer.

F. PROBATION TERMS. If probation was imposed by the
Final Order of the Board, the following provisions are applicable.

1. m:

a. INDIRECT SQZERV;SIOE is supervision by a
monitoring physician (monitor) whose responsibilities are set by
the Board. Indirect supervision does not require that the monitor
practice on the same premises as the Respondent, however, the
monitor shall practice within a reasonable geographic proximity to
Respondent, which shall be within 20 miles unless otherwise
providedw by the Board and shall be readily available for
consultatibn. The monitor shall be Boardvcertified in the
Respondent's specialty area unless otherwise provided by the Board.

b. DIRECI SQEEgVISION is supervision by a
supervising physician (supervisor) whose responsibilities are set

by the Board. Direct supervision requires that the supervisor and

000010

