 

STATE OF‘ FLORIDA
BOARD OF MEDICINE
Final om; Nu. DOH-QT-{Mlﬁ Datc 32-30%?

FILED
‘IJEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, Tﬁmfofﬁ‘aﬁ"

      
 
   

Petitioner.
Dcpu r)- Agency Clem

vs. CASE NO.: 94~058T5
LICENSE NO.: MEDOéleTé

DARIO ESPINA, M.D.,

Reepondent.

 

EIH£L_QEQ§E

THIS CAUSE came before the Board of Medicine [Board] pursuant tn
Sections 120.563 and 120.57ﬂ4J. Florida Statutes, on December 5, 1997.
in West Palm Beach, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement
[attached hereto as Exhibit A} entered into between the parties in the
abDVEHSEyled cause. Upon consideration of the Consent Agreement, the
documents submitted in support thereof, the arguments 0f the parties,
and being otherwise advised in the premises,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Consent Agreemeet as
submitted be and is hereby approved and adopted in tote and
incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall
adhere to and abide by all the terms and conditions of the Cunsant
Agreement.

This Final Order shall take effect upon being filed with the

Clerk of the Department of Health.

|
. , |
DONE MD ORDERED this & f #\ day Df‘fiuzﬂﬂﬂd/Léﬂﬁ ,

(9?? .

BOARD OF MEDICINE

 

EDWARD A. BAUER, M .D.
CHMRMW

QEBIIEIEAZE_QE_EEEEIEE

I EEREEY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
Final Order has been provided by U.S. Mail to Dario Espina, M.D.,
11380 Prosperity Farms Road, Suite 104, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida
33413; :0 Reed Keller, Esguire, Adams, Cougler, Watscn, & Merkel. Post
Office Box 2069, West Palm Beach, Florida 33402. and by interoffica
delivery tn Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Attorney, Agency for Health
Care Administration, 2727 Mahan Drive, Tallahassee, Florida 32303-

SGOB, on or before 5:00 n.m., tnis day of

(5M? . —

 

shall be readily available for consultation. The monitor shall be Bomd—certiﬁed in the
Respondent‘s specialty area unless otherwise provided by the Beam.

b. MREQTJSl IPEEVISLQN is supervision by a supervising
physician {supervisor}, physicians assistant, respiratory care practitioner, as set forth in the

Consent Agreement, whose responsibilities are set by me Board. Direct supervision

 

requires that the supervisur and Respendent work in the same 0

 

 

ice, The supervisor shall

 

be boaId—ceniﬁed in the Respondent's specialty area unless otherwise provided by the

Board.

c. PR; JRA ! IQN or "committee" are
members ofthe Board of Medicine designated by the Chairman of the Board to serve as the

Probation Comnﬁrtee.
2. WEL‘HQE.

a. If the terms of the consent agreement include indirect
monitoring of Lhe licensees's practice (MONITORING) 01- direct monitoring DP Lhe licensees
practice (SUPERVISION). the Respondent shall not practice medicine without an approved
monitorfsupen'isor, as speciﬁed by the Consent Agreement, unless otherwise ordered by the
Board.

b. The monitort‘supen'isor must be a licensee under Chapter
453, Florida Statutes, in good standing and wimeut restriction or limitation on his license.
In addition, the Board or Committee may reject any proposed menimn’supervisor cm lhe
basis that he has previously been subject to any disciplinary action against his medical
license in this or any otherjurisdicdon. is currently under investigation, or is Lhe subject. ofa

pending disciplinary action. The monitort’supervisor must. be actively engaged in the same

or similar Specialty ma unless otherwise provided by the Board 01' Committee and be
practicing within a reasonable distance of the Respondent’s practice, a distance of no more
than twenty (20) miles unless oLhcrwise Speciﬁcally provided for in the :onsem agreement.

The Board or Committee may also reject any proposed monitore’supervisur for good cause

 

shown.
c. MECHANTSM FQR APPROVAT OF
' I W
(I) ILMPQRgBY éEEEEJVAL. The Board

confers authority on the Chah-man of the Board's Probation Committee to temporarily
approve Respondent's monitora’Supen'isor. To obtain [his temporary approval, Respondent
shall submit to thc Chairman of Lhe Probaliun Committee the name and curriculum vitae of
the proposed monilorfsupervisor 21: Lb: time this agreement is considered by the Board.
Once a Final Order adopting this Agreement is ﬁled, Respondent shall not practice
medicine without an apprmr'ed munitun’supcn’isor. Temporary approval shall only
remain in effect until the next meeting ofthe Probation Committee.

(2). FEJBMAL ﬁEPRQVM‘. Respondent shall
have lhe monitora’supcrvisor with him at his ﬁrst probation appeamnce before the Probation
Conuninee. Prior 10 consideration of the monitora’supen’isor by the Committee, the
Respondcni shall provide 10 the monitorfsupen‘isor a copy of the Adnﬁnistrative Compiaint
and Fina} Order in this case. Rﬁspondem shall submit a current cun'iculurn vitae and a
descripticln ofCurrem practice me the proposed monitorfsupenisor to the Board ofﬁce no
later Than founeen days before the Respondent's ﬁrst scheduled probation appearance.

Respondent's moniton’supervisor shall also appear before the Probation Committee at such

other times as directed by the Committee. It shall he Respondent‘s responsibility to ensure
that the appearance of his moniton’supervisor as directed. Failure of the monjton‘supervisor
to appear as directed shall constitute a Violation of the terms of this Stipulation and shall
subject the Respondent to disciplinary action.

(1. QHANQE WTTQWSUPERVTSOR. In the
event that Respondent's meniiorfsupervisor is unable or unwilling to fulﬁll his
responsibilities as a monitorr‘supewisnr as described above, then the Respondent shall
immediately advise the Board of this fact. Respondent shall immediately submit to the
Chairman of the Board‘s Probatien Committee the name of a temporary mnnimn‘supervisor
for consideration. Respondent shall not practice pending approval of this temporary
moniton’supen-‘isor by the Chairman of the Probation Committee. Fuﬁhennorc, Respondent
shall make arrangements with his temporary monitorfsupervisor 1.0 appear before the
Probation Committee at its next regularly scheduled meeting for consideration of the
monitora’supervisor by the Committee. Respondent shalt only practice under The auspices of
The temporary menimrISUpen-isur (approved by Lhe Chairman) until the man regularly
scheduted meeting of the Probation Committee whcrcat the issue of the Committee‘s

approval of the Respondent’s new moniton’supervisor shall be addressed.

 

3- mm "mm
a. W. In the event the Respondent
leaves the State of Florida for a period of thirty days or more or otherwise does not or may
not engage in the active practice of medicine in the Slate ut'Florida. than certain previsions

of Respondent's probation (and only those provisions of the probation) shall be tolled as

enumerated below and shall remain in a toiled status until Respondent returns to active

pmcticc in [he Stale afFlorida:

{1). The time period ofpmhation shall be tolled,

[2}. The provisions regarding supervision whether
direct or indirect by the morﬂmrfsupervisor, and required repom from me
monitorfsupervisor shall be tolled.

(3). The provisions regarding preparation: of
investigative reports detailing compliance with this Stipulation shall be tolled.

(4), Any provisions regarding community service
shall be tolled.

b. AETWE PBaQI 19;. In the event that Respondent
leaves the active practice of medicine far a period of' one year or more, the Probation
Committee may require Respondum to appear before Lhe Probation Committee and
demonstrate his ability to practice medicine wiLh skill and safety to patients priur to

resuming the practice of medicine or respiratory therapy in [his State.

STATE OF FLOR] DA
AGENCY F OR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION

AGENCY FOR HEALTH )
CARE ADMINISTRATION. )
)
PETITION'ER, }
}
v. ) CASE NO. 94-05875
J
DARIO ESPINA1 M.D., )
)
RESPONDENT. )
__._)

 

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Agency for Healﬂx Care Admmﬁon, hereinafter
referred to as “Petitioner," and ﬁles this Adminisu-ative Complaint before the Board of Medicine
against Dario Espina, M.D., hcrcinaﬂer referred to as “Respondent.” and alleges:

]. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the practice of medicine
pursuant to Section 20.42, Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458,-
Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto a licensed physician in the
state of Florida, having been issued license number ME 0041474. Respondent’s last known
address is l 1330 Prosperity Farms Road, Suite 104, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida 33410.

3. Respondent is board oeﬂiﬁed in Cardiology.

4. On 01' about December 30, 1993, Patient R.A., a sevenly-two (?2) year old female,

presented to the Emergency Room (ER) at Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center complaining of

severe chest pain. Patient RA. was diagnosed as suffering from angina pectoris due to extensive
coronan artery disease and was admitted to the hospital.

5. Respondent subsequently performed a cardiac caLhelerization which revealed
extensive stenosis due to arteriosclerosis in both main coronary arteries and several branches.
Respondent consulted with a Cardiovascular Surgeon who perfumed opcn-heart bypass smgery
on 01' about December 31, 1993. The procedure was succeSSful with bypass grafting with a left
internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending coronary artery and a saphenous vain
graft to the circumﬂex coronary artery. Post-operativcly. Patient RA. experienced no
compiications and was eating by the ﬁfth post-Dpcrative day.

6. 011 or about January 6, 1994, Patient R.A. experienced mummt chest pain. An
electrocardiogram reveaied evidence of a possible antemscptal myocardial infarction. A
subsequent echocardiogram revealed some decreased wall motion consistent with acute injury of
the heart muscle.

7. Following evaluation on the sixth post-olxrativc day, ReSpondent ordered the
administration of a thrombolytic agent at the objection of a coronary care nurse. Following —
administration of the tlu'ombolyn'c agent, Patient RA. experienced shock. ReSpondent requested
evaluation by a Cardiovascuhr Surgeon who re-explored Patient KA_'S chest. Re-explomtion
revealed massive bleeding in the sternum, mediastinum. and plural cavity. DeSpite supportive
measures Patient RA. expired due to severe hemorrhage.

8. Respondent failed to practice medicine within Ihe acceptable level of care in that

Respcndent inappropriately ordered the administration of a thrombolyﬁc agent within one (1)

Id

week of the bypass Surgery. Patient R.A.‘s expiration due to severe hemorrhaging was a direct
result of {he Lhmrnbolﬁic agent.

9. RcSpondent inappropriately administered medication in that Respondent ordered
the administration of a thrombolytic agent to Patient R.A. within one (1) week of cardiac surgery.
It is contra-indicated to administer a thrombolytic agent to a patient within several weeks of a
cardiac surgery.

10. Respondent failed to maintain appropriate medical records in that R&spondcnt
failed to provide adequate justiﬁcation in the records for the administration of a lhrombolyﬁc
agent to Patient RA.

COUNT ONE

11. Petitioner rcalleges and incorporates paragraphs one (I) through ten (10), as if
Fully set forth herein this Count One.

12. Respondent is guilty of failing to practice medicine within the acceptable level of
care in that Respondent mapproprlately ordered the adnﬁIﬁstmion of a Lhrombolytic agent wilhin
one (1) week of bypass swgery. * ~

l3. Based on Lhe foregoing, Respondent violated Section 453‘331[1)(t), Florida
Statutes, failure :0 practice medicine with that level of care, skill. and treaﬂncnt which is
recognized by a reasonably prudent physician as being acceptable under simiIaI conditions and
circumstances.

m
14. Petitioner reallcges and incorporates paragraphs one (1) through ten (10) and

twelve (12), as if ﬁllly set fonh herein Ibis Count Two.

15. Respondent is guilty of inappropriately adminislen'ng medication in that
Respondent Ordered the administration of a thrombolﬁic agent to Patient RA. within one (1]
wcck of cardiac surgery.

16. Bascd on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section 458.331(l)(q), Florida
Statutes, prescribing, dispensing, administering, mixing. or otherwise preparing a legend drug,
including any controlled substance, other than In the course of the physician‘s professional
practice.

COUNT THREE

1?. Pelizioner malleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1) thraugh ten (10}, twelve
(12}, and ﬁfteen (15), as if fully set forth herein this Count Three.

13. Respondent is guilty of failing to maintain appropriate medical records in that
Respondent failed to provide adequate justiﬁcation in the records for the admjrﬁstration of a
thrombolytic agent to Patient RA

19. Based on the foregoing, Rcslnondent violated Section 458.331(1)(m], Florida
Statutes, failing to keep written medical records justifying the course of treatment of 111.: patient, -
including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination results; test results; recards of drugs
prescribed, dispensed, or administered; and reports ofconsullalions and hospitalizations.

WHEREFORE. the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of Medicine enter an order
imposing one or more of the following penalties: pcmanent revocation or suspension of the
Rcsmndent‘s license, restriction of the Respondent‘s practice. imposition of an administrative
fine, issuance of a reprimand. placement of the Rcsmndent on probation, the assessment of costs

minted to the investigation and proseculion of this case, other than .costs associated with an

attorney’s time, as provided for in Section 455.2276), Florida Statutes. andfor any other relief

that the Board deems appropriate,

SIGNED Ibis /7 day of , 1997.

  

Douglas M. Cask, Director

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.
Chief Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR AGENCY:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.
ChiefMedical Altorney

Agency for Health Care Adminishatiun F I L E D

P. 0. Box 14229 AGENCY F0 OH “OH
Tallahassee, Florida 323174229 W CARE ”Mm“

Florida Ba: 3 788643 DEPUTY ° W}. 3““
RPCJ'jto GLERK

PCP: June13,1997 6 -/7' ‘97

H
PCP Members: Slade, Gerda, Pardue DATE

 

STATE OF FLORIDA 9735‘) 50155-41!
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH 29 451m
:2]
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH.
Petitioner,
v. AHCA Case No. 94-05875
DARIO ESPTNA, M.D.,
Respondent
I

 

g ”VSEgS'T ALREE'LENT

Dario Espina, M.D., referred to as the "Respondent," and the Agency for Hcallh
Care Administration. referred to :55 ”Agency," stipulate and agree to Lhe follou-dng
Agreement and t0 the entry of a Final Order of the Board of Medicinc, referred to as
"Board," incorporating the Stipulalcd F acts and Stipulatcd Disposition in this manner.

mlﬁﬂ ED FAQTS

|. At all times material hereto, Respondent was a licensed physician: in the State of
F lnrida having been issued license number ME 00414'M.

2. Respondent was charged by an Adnmzistmtivc Complaint filed by the Agency
and pruparly sewed upon Respondent wiIh violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and
the rules enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct copy of Lht: Administrative Complaint
is atiached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent admits the allegations of fact contained Ln Lhe Administrative

Complaint for purposes of these proceedings only.

T N. F W

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed physician, he is subject to
the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458. Florida Stamtes. and thcjurisdiction of the Agency
and the Board.

2. Raspondem admits that the facts set forth in Lhe Administrative Complaint, if
pmven, would constitute violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the
Adnﬂnistrativc Complaint.

3. Respondenl admits that Lhc Stipulated Disposition in this case is fair, appropriate
and acceptabls to Respondent.

E I iEHLﬁ‘. [‘-2 QSEQS ITIQN

|_ F!) i [ zRF. S HIS 2E EETE Rtspondent shall not in the future violate: Chapters 455,
453 and 893: Florida Statutes, or Lhe rules promulgated pursuant thereto. Prior to signing
Lhis agreemenL Reexpondent read Chapters 455, 458‘ and 893, Fiorida Smtmes, and the
Rules oflhe Board of Medicine, :11 Section 59R, Fiorida AdmirLierath-’c Code,

2. BE The Board shall impose an aderljstraLive ﬁn: in the amount of 57,500
against the Respondent. The ﬁne shall be paid by the Respondent lo the Board of Medicine
within 51M days of its imposition by Final} Order of the Board. THE
RESPONDENT ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE TIMELY PAYMENT OF THJE‘.
FINE IS HleHER LEGAL OBLIGATION AND RESPONSIBILITY AND THE
RESPONDENT AGREES TO CEASE PRACTICING IF THE FINE IS NOT PAD)
AS AGREED TO IN THIS CONSENT AGREEMENT, SPECIFICALLY: [F THE
RESPONDENT HAS NOT RECEIVED WRITTEN CONFIRMATION THAT THE

FULL AMOUNT OF THE FINE HAS BEEN RECEIVED BY THE BOARD

OFFICE WITHIN 60 DAYS OF THE FILING OF THIS FINAL ORDER THE
RESPONDENT AGREES TO CEASE ?RACTICE UNTIL SUCH WRITTEN
CONFIRIVLA'J‘ION IS RECEIVED BY THE RESPONDENT FROM THE BOARD.
(SEE EXHIBIT B, PARAGRAPH F 0]? THIS CONSENT AGREEMENT FOR

BOARD ADDRESS AND STANDARD TERMS).

3. (LQN'TP‘WG MEDLCﬁL EDUCAIIDN. Respondent shall attend 7 hours of

CMES, 7 hum of CMEs: 2 hows in Quality Assurance, and 5 hours in Risk managbmem.

 

Respondent shaI submit a written plan to the Chairman of the Probatiunar's Committee for
approval prim to The completion of said continuing education hours. The Board confers
authority on the Chairman of the Probationel‘s Committee to approve or disapprove said
continuing education hours. In addition. Respondent shall submit documentation in the
form of certiﬁed copies of Lhe receipts, vouchers, certiﬁcates, or other papers, such as
physician's recognition awards, documenting completion of these medical education
caurscs wimin one {1) year of Lhe envy of the Final Order in Ms mauer. All .such
documﬂnlalion shali be sent huh: Board of Medicine regardless of wheLher 59mg or any of
mquntatm was previousiv proxidggi during rhmm 0f any audit m disgmsion
With mmsgl f9: 1]]; aggncy These hours shall be in addition to those hours required for
renewal of licensure. Uniﬁss omemise approved by Lhe Board, said continuing medical

Education courses shall consist of a formal, live lecture format.

W4

4. The Respondent shall compiete the FMA Medical Records course, Wl'rh'm 0M 1cm” 0‘?

“\2 Board‘s Rm! 0’12!“
S. Wﬂﬂﬁ. This Consent Agreement shall be governed, to

the extent applicable, by the attached "Standard Terms Applicable to Consent Agreements,"

Exhibit B, which is incorporated as if fully set forth herein.

6. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject to the approval of the
Board and the Agency. 1.11 this regard, the foregoing paragraphs (and only the foregoing
paragraphs) shah have no force and effect unless a Final Order incorporating the terms of
this Agreement is entered by the Beam.

7. Respondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting of the Board where this
Agreement is considered. Respondent. in conjunction with the consideration of this
Agreement by me Board. shall respond to questions under oath from the Board, Board Staff
or Agency Staff. Respondent shall be prepared to explain the circumstances involved in

this matter and what measures have been taken to prevent a recurrence, However,

Respondent shall offer no evidence, testimony or augment that di5putes or contravenes any

stipulated fact 01' conclusion of law.

8. Should this Agreement be rejected, no statement made in furtherance of this
Agreement by the Respondent may be used as direct evidence against the Resgnondent in
any preceeding; however, such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeacluncnt
purposes.

9. Respondent and the Agency fully understand that this joint Agreement and
subsequent Fina] Order incorporating same will in no way preclude additiona! pmct‘cdings
by the Board anther the Agency against the Respondent for acts or omissiuns not

speciﬁcally set forth in the Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit "A" herein.

10. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, Respondcnt expressly waives all
further procedural steps. and expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review 0f or to
otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the

Board incorporating said Agreement.

I 1. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, the parties hereby agree that with
the exception of costs noted above, each part}? will hear his- own attorney's fees and costs
resulting from proseaution or defense of this matter. Respondent waives the right to seek
any attorney's fees or costs from the Agency in connection with this matter.

12. This Agreement is executed by Lhe Respondent for thc purposa of avoiding
further administrative action with respect to this cause. in this rﬁgard, Respondent
authorizes the Board to review and examine all investigative ﬁle materials concerning
Respundent prior to Dr in conjunction with consideration of the: Agreement. Furﬂtcrmore,
should this joint Agreement not be accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to
and consideration of this Agreement and other documents and matters by the Board shall
n01 unfairly or illegally prejudice Lhe Board or any of its members from further

paﬂlcipatian, cunsidcrmion or resolution of these proceedings.

SIGNED thisﬂday of $42141 I991

    

Darin E3pina, MD.

Before me, personally appeared j 2;; rr 1;; , Whose identity is

known to me by 2 (-9.: Q15 4 (type of identiﬁcation) and who, under

oath, acknowledges that hisﬁier signature appcm above.

Swom to and subscribed before me this f}:_ clay of . (“7 6/); 5a;

1996.
.2 /< . _ : :
/'.3r{?:/ZV:IT_ C: .\ ‘ZZ/fllzéﬁgag-
_ » TARY PUBLIC
, mm E. PHILLIPS 1
MY COMMSSIJN l 02 573501
EXPIRES: Mm 13. 2001

APPROVED this 1 day arm, 199?.

Douglas M. Cook
Director

  
 
     
 
 

    

  

My Commission Expires:

 

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.
Chief Attorney
Medical Section

EXHIBITB “9735p 0156‘ --
STANDARD TERMS APPLICABLE TO CONSENT AGREQIWFS 4!
6‘.-
92

The following are Lhe standard terms applicable to all consent ageements. ineludmg
supervision and monitoring provisions applicable to licensees on probation.

A. PAYMENT QF FIME. Unless otherwise directed by the chnsent

agreement, all ﬁnes shall be paid by check or money order and 5an tn the Board address set

forth in paragraph F, below. The Board Ofﬁce does 1101 have the authority to Change the

terms of payment of any ﬁne imposed by the Board.

 

B. QIMNM'TY SERVICE ALID CQNTINUINLEDUCA'I'IQH
m Unless otherwiae directed by the consent agreemenL, all community service
requirements. conmming education unitsfcumses must be completed, and decumcntalion of
such completion subnﬁttcd to the Board of Medicine at the address set form below in
paragraph F , WITHIN ONE YEAR OF THE DATE OF THE FINAL 0RD ER.

C. LAWS AND RULES EXAMINATION. Unless otherwise directed
by the consent agreement, the Respondent shall take and obtain a score of at least ?0%
correct on the Laws and Rules Examination within six months of the Final Order, The
Respondent shall notify the Agency at least one week prior to the dam: hefshe wishes to take
the examination to schedule a time for the examination at one of the Agency's Investigative
Ofﬁces. The Respondent may take the examination as many times as needed [0 obtain a
passing score of ?0%. Contact Donna Brown 487—96T2, at. the Agency for Health Care
Administxation, to schedule a time for the examination, or to answer any questions.

D. ADDRESSES. Respundeni must keep current residence and

practice addresses on ﬁle with the Board, Respondent shall notify the Board within ten

(10) days of any changes of said addresses. Funhennore, [f the Respondent's license is on
probation, the Respondent shall notify the Board within ten (IO) days in the event lhal
Respondent leaves the active practice of medicine in Florida.

E_ m Pursuant to Section 458.331(2), Florida Statutes, the
Respondent shall pay all costs necessary to comply with the terms of this Consent
Agreement. Such costs include. but are nul limited to, the costs of preparation of
Investigative Repurts detailing compliance with the terms of Lhc Consent Agreemant,
obtaining supervision or monitoring of the practice, the cost of quality assurance reviews,
and the Board's administrative costs directly associated with Respondent's probation.

F. W Unlcss otherwise directed by the Board ofﬁce,
all ﬁnes, repons, correspondence and inquiries shall bc sum to: Board of Medicine, 1940
North Monroe Street, Tallahassee. Florida 32399—0792, Arm: Finai Order

Compliance Ofﬁcer.

G. ﬂﬂutlt‘i IFRME. If probation was imposed by the Final
Order of the Board, the: following provisions are applicable.

I.Wz
a. [E 2i §E§§l SUEFRVIS {M is supervision by a

monitoring physician (monitor), physicians assistant, respiratory care practitioner, as set _
forth in the Consent Agreement, whose responsibilities are set by the Board. Indirect
Supervision does not requir: that the monitor practice on the same premises as the
Respondent, however, the monitor shalt practice within a reasonable geographic proximity

to Respondent, which Shall be within 20 miles unless otherwise provided by ﬂu: Board and

