STATE OF FLORIDA
BOARD OF MEDICINE

Final Order No. DOII- (LD_LI 1W. 115%
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, HI. ED D\TF, - BZf—QQ

Q lkpanmumorllmlllu
Petitioner, WQ;EE:V1#QEQ

kaﬂly ,Mgscncx {Jerk

vs. DOAH CASE NO.: 99—1417
DOH CASE NO.: 94-01468
LICENSE NO.: ME0031020

ERNESTO SINDA COLINA, M.D.,

Respondent.

/

 

FINAL ORDER

THIS CAUSE came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant to
Sections 120.569 and 120.57(l), Florida Statutes, on June 2, 2000, in
Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, for the purpose of considering the
Administrative Law Judge’s Recommended Order (a copy of which is
attached hereto as Exhibit A) in the above-styled cause. Petitioner
was represented by Kristy Johnson, Senior Attorney. Respondent was
not present nor was he represented by counsel.

Upon review of the Recommended Order, the argument of the
parties, and after a review of the complete record in this case, the
Board makes the following findings and conclusions.

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The findings of fact set forth in the Recommended Order are

approved and adopted and incorporated herein by reference.

2. There is competent substantial evidence to support the

findings of fact.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. The Board has jurisdiction of this matter pursuant to Section
120.57(l), Florida Statutes, and Chapter 458, Florida Statutest

2. The conclusions of law set forth in the Recommended Order are
approved and adopted and incorporated herein by reference.

3. There is competent substantial evidence to support the
conclusions of law.

PENALTY

Upon a complete review of the record in this Case, the Board
determines that the penalty recommended by the Administrative Law
Judge be accepted. WHEREFORE,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that

Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State of Florida
is hereby REVOKED.

This Final Order shall take effect upon being Eiled with the

Clerk of the Department of Health.

u :1" .

a
|
DONE AND ORDERED this ¢ .. day of -x'f-Ul_..-'1-L£ , 2000.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

  

   

. J
(QQ’Lﬁ-LU-a'ldﬂ’ . ._rL/t_l_é!—‘V"‘U)

=21.- GEORGES/ . E -BAHRI, M.D.
{u , \.

L_

CHAIRMAN

    

(h) Corrective action.

(i) Refund of fees billed to and collected

from the patient.

19. Disciplinary licensing proceedings are penal in nature.

State ex rel. Vininq vs. Florida Real Estate Commission, 281
So. 2d 487 (Fla. 1973). In this disciplinary licensing
proceeding, Petitioner must prove the alleged violations of
Section 458.331(1)(t) and (v), Florida Statutes, by clear and

convincing evidence. Ferris vs; Turlington, 510 So. 2d 292 (Fla.

.lst: DCA 1987).

20.’ Count I of the Complaint alleges that Respondent
violated Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, by (l) treating
impotence with Protaglandin 8—1; (2) recommending Ibuprofen to
counteract the priapism; (3) failing to inform Patient E.C. of
the risks of itrogenci priapism; (4) failing to inetruct Patient
E.C. to return tor immediate evaluation within four to six hours
of persistent rigidity, and (5) attempting to manage impotence
with pharmacologic erection programs with injectible vasoactive
agents without or under the supervision of a specialist trained
in the treatment of impotence, such as urology.

21. According to the Respondent's admissions and the
deposition testimony of both Dr. Jackson and Dr. Jacobo,
Respondent practiced mediCine below that level of care, skill)
and treatment'which is recognized by a reasonably similar
physiciah as being acceptable under similar Conditions and
circumstances in the treatment of Patient E.C. The Petitioner

has proven by clear and convincing evidence that Respondent

19091 7

violated Section 458.331(l)(t), Florida Statutes, as alleged in
Count One of the Administrative Complaint.

22. Count Two of the Complaint alleges that Respondent
violated Section 458.331(1)(v), Florida Statutes, in that
Respondent accepted and performed professional responsibilities
which the licensee knew or had reason to know that he was not
competent to perform. Respondent undertook the treatment of
Patent E.C.'s impotence through a pharmacologic erection program
with injectible vasoactive agents without having the necessary
training or practicing under the supervision of a specialist
ttained in the treatment of impotence, such as urology.

23. Accoréing to Dr. Jackson, Dr. Jacobo, Respondent's
admissions and Respondent's Curriculum Vitae, Respondent had no
such specialized training in the treatment of impotence through a
pharmacological erection program with injectible vasoactive
agents. .Furthermore, the treathent of Patient E.C. in the manner
utilized by Respondent required such training or supervision by a
properly trained physician. The Petitioner has established by
clear and convincing evidence that Respondent violated Section
458.331(l)(v), Florida Statutes, as alleged in Count Two of the
Complaint.

24. -The disciplinary guidelines of the Department of
Health, Boafd of Medicine, found at Rule 64B8—8.001, Florida
Administrative Code, provide a range of penalties for violations
of the provisions of Section 458.331, Florida Statutes. In

arriving at an appropriate penalty in the instant case,

consideration has been given to the guidelines set forth in that
rule.
RECOMMENDATION
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of

Law, it is hereby

RECOMMENDED that Respondent's license to practice medicine
in'the State of Florida be revoked.

DONE AND ENTERED this thégday of April, 2000, in

CAROLYN . HOLIM
Administrative Law Judge

Division of Administrative Hearings
The DeSoto Building

1230 Apalachee Parkway

Tallahassee, Florida 32399—3060
(850) 488—9675 SUNCOM 278—9675
Fax Filing (850) 921—6847
www.doah.state.fl.us

Tallahassee, Leon County, Florida.

Filed with the Clerk of the
Division of Administrative Hearings
this 22% day of April, 2000.

COPIES FURNISHED :

Kristy M. Johnson, Esquire
Department of Health

Post Office Box 14229
Tallahassee, Florida 32317—4229

Ernesto Sinda Celina, M.D‘
4002 West Thonotosassa Road
Plant City, Florida 33565—8593

Tanya Williams, Executive Director
Board of Medicine

Department of Health

1940 North Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0750

10

Iwoés—ﬂ

' Angela T. Hall, Agency Clerk
Department of Health
2020 Capital Circle, Southeast
BIN A02
Tallahassee, Florida 32399—1701

William Large, General Counsel
Department of Health

2020 Capital Circle, Southeast
BIN A02

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-1701

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO SUBMIT EXCEPTIONS

All parties have the right to submit written exceptions within 15
days from the date of this Recommended Order. Any exceptions to

this Recommended Order should be filed with the agency that will

issue the final order in this case.

11

STATE OF FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH

' DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH,

PETITIONER,

  

v. ﬂé'ASE NO. 94-01468
ERNESTO SINDA COLINA, M.D.,

RESPONDENT.

vvvvvvvvvv

 

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Deﬁanment of Health, hereinafter referred to as
“Petitioner,” and files this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against .
Ernesto Sinda Celina, M.D., hereinafter referred to as “Respondent,” and alleges:

1. Effective July 1, 1997, Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the
practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.43, F lorida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida Statutes,
and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2043(3), Florida

Statutes, the Petitioner has contracted with the Agency for Health Care Administration to provide

consumer complaint, investigative, and prosecutoxiaI-serviccs-required b-y-t-he Division of
. Medical Quality Assurance, councils, O_r boards; as appropriate.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto a licgnsed physician in the

state of Florida, having been issued license number ME 0031020. Respondent’s last knowh

address is 4002 W. Thonotosassa Rd., Plant City, Florida 33565—8593.

3. On December 7, 1993, Patient EC, 21 61 year old male, presented to the Orlando
Vascular Clinic (the‘Ciinie) for evaluation of impotence. Respondent was the physician at the
Clinic who treated Patient EC.

4. The evaluation included three visits, beginning with laboratory studies, physical

.— ‘ r-~ .

 

examination, and concluding with the injeeti'bn of Prostaglandin E1 into the corpora of Patient

E.C.’s penis by order of Respondent.

5. 'The said injection produced an immediate erection which did not subside and
became painful.
6. Patient E.C. contacted the Clinic and was advised to take Ibuprofen and pack the

~ penis in ice.

7. The rigidity persisted and Patient E.C subsequently presented to the South
Seminole Hespital Emergency Room for further evaluation of a priapism (persistent erection of
the penis, accompanied by pain and tenderness, resulting from a pathologic condition rather that
sexual desire) of approximately 56 hours duration.

8. Patient BC. was seen by Elias Jacobo, M.D., who irrigated the corpora with
normal saline and Heparin, evacuating 01d clot under sterile conditions and with antibiotic
coverage.

9. Patient BC. was reevaluated the next morning and had resolution of the priapism.

10. ‘ Patient E.C. subsequently presented on'January 17, 1994, with a recurrence of his

priapism with tenderness and evidence of infection. I"

11. Patient BC. was subsequently taken to the operating room on January 17, 1994,

where the corpora were drained, explored, and irrigated with alpha agonist Ephedrine.

12. Patient E.C. was seen in consultation by the Infectious Disease specialist and
maintained on antibiotics. The diagnosis was coxporitis which gradually resolved with proper
drainage and antibiotic therapy.

13. The treatment of impotence by Prostaglandin E1, product name A1prostadi1, is an

 

a unapproved use. The use of Prostaglandin E] is for neonate cardiac patients. 1_hEprofen has no
effect on Phostaglandihﬁl. I
I 14. Respondent failed to inform Patient E.C. of the risks of iatrogenic priapism and
failed to instruct Patient E.C. to return for immediate evaluation within four to six hours of
persistent rigidity.

15. Recommending Ibuprofen and ice packs is inadequate treatment and is below that
level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar physician
as being acceptable under similar conditions and-circumstances (hereinafter, standard of care) in
the treatment of Patient E.C.

16. The management, of impotence with phaxmacologic erection programs with
injectable vasoactive agents should be performed by or under the supervision of a specialist
trained in the treatment of impotence, such as urology. Respondent had no such specialized

. training. and the treatment of Patient E.C. withottt such training was below the standard of care.
COUNT ONE

17. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one ( 1) through sixteen (16), as if
fully set forth herein this Count One.

18. By (A) treating impotence with ProstagIandin E1, (B) recommending Ibuprofen to
counteract the priapism, (C) failing to inform Patient E.C. of the risks of iatrogenic priapism, (D)

3

-4953—

failing to instruct Patient EC. to retunt for immediate evaluation within four to six hours of
persistent rigidity, (E) attempting to manage impotence with pharmacologic erection programs
with injectable vasoactive agents not having been performed by or under the supervision of a
specialist trained'in the treatment of impotence, such as urology, Respondent practiced medicine
below that level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and circumstances in the treatment of
Patient EC.
19. Based on the above, Respondent violated Section 458.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes,
V by failing to practice medicine with that level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by
.a reasonably prudent similar physician as being acceptable under similar conditions hnd

circumstances.

W

20. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1) through sixteen (16) and .
paragraph eighteen (18), as if fully set forth herein this Count Two.

2]. Respondent accepted and performed professional responsibilities which the
licensee knew or had reason to know that he wasnot competent to perform in that Respondent
under took the treatment of Patient E.C.’s impotence through a pharm'acologic erection program
with injectable vasoactive agents without having the necessary training or practicing under the
supervision of a specialist trained in the treatment of impotence, such as nrology. Respondent
had no such specialized training, and the treatment of Patient EC in the manner utilized required

such training.

#1954—

.4955

22. Based on the above, Respondent violated Section 458'.331(l)(v), Florida Statutes,
by practicing or offering to practice beyond the scope permitted by law or accepting and
performing professional responsibilities which the licensee knows or has reason to know that he

or she is not competent to perform.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of Medicine enter an order
imposing one or more of the following penalties: permanent revocation or suspension of the

Respondent‘s license, restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an administrative

- ﬁne,‘ issuance (if a reprimand, placement of the Respondent on probation, the assessment of costs

- related to the investigation and prosecution of this case, other than costs associated with an

attorney’s time, as provided for in Section 455.624(3), Florida Statutes, and/or any other relief

that the Board deems appropriate.

SIGNED this i day of WW ,1999.

Robert G. Brooks, M.Dt, Secretary

 

Chief Medical A omey

COUNSEL FOR DEPARTMENT:
Laxry G. McPherson, Jr. ‘ . I — Fl LED
Chief Medical Attorney DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH

Agency for Health Care Administration 5" UTY C‘rERK .

P. O.'Box 14229 CLERKWO- 0""
Tallahassee, Florida 323174229 ”W
Florida Bar # 788643 DATE - -
RPC/gm

pcp; January 28; 1999'
PCP Members: Skinner, Echevarria, Rodriguez

.~-.."

I
b

 

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO JUDICIAL REVIEW
A PARTY WHO IS ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THIS FINAL ORDER IS ENTITLED TO
JUDICIAL REVIEW PURSUANT TO SECTION 120.68, FLORIDA STATUTES. REVIEW
PROCEEDINGS ARE GOVERNED BY THE FLORIDA RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE.
SUCH PROCEEDINGS ARE COMMENCED BY FILING ONE COPY OF A NOTICE OF
APPEAL WITH THE AGENCY CLERK OF THE AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE
ADMINISTRATION AND A SECOND COPY, ACCOMPANIED BY FILING FEES
PRESCRIBED BY LAW, WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL, FIRST DISTRICT,
OR WITH THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL IN THE APPELLATE DISTRICT WHERE

THE PARTY RESIDES. THE NOTICE OF APPEAL MUST BE FILED WITHIN THIRTY
(30) DAYS OF RENDITION OF THE ORDER TO BE REVIEWED.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
Final Order has been provided by U.S. Mail to Ernesto Sinda Colina,
M D., 4002 West Thonatosassa Road, Plant City, Florida 33565—8593; to
Carolyn S. Holifield, Administrative Law Judge, Division of
Administrative Hearings, The DeSoto Building, 1230 Apalachee Parkway,
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-3060; and by interoffice delivery to
Kathryn L. Kasprzak, Chief Medical Attorney, Agency for Health Care

Administration, 2727 Mahan Drive, Tallahassee Florida 32308—5403, on

\ij /
or before 5:00 p.m., this éng day of \i:fL}4 W k—»’ , 2000.

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, BOARD
OF MEDICINE,

Petitioner,
vs, Case No: 99-1417'

ERNESTO SINDA COLINA, M D.,

Respondent.

 

RECOMMENDED ORDER
Pursuant to notice, the final hearing was held in Ehis case
on March 8, 2OQO, by video teleconference at sites iﬁ Tampa and
Tallahassee, Florida, before Carolyn S. Holifield, a duly—
designated Administrative Law Judge of the Division of
Administrative HearingsA
AEEEAEAEQ§§
Fdr Petitioner: Kristy M. Johnson, Esquire
Department of Health
Post Office Box 14229

Tallahassee, Florida 32317—4229

For Respondent: No Appearance

STATEMENT OF THE ISSUES
Whether Respondent, Ernesto Sinda Celina, M.D., violated
Section 458.33(l)(t) and (v), Florida Statutes, as alleged in the
Administrative Complaint and, if so, what disciplinaryfaction
should be taken agaiﬁst Respondent's license to practice

medicine.

 

PRELIMINARY STATEMENT

Oh February 10, 1999, Petitioner, the Department of Health
(Departmeht), filed an Administrative Complaint against
Respondent, Ernesto Sinda Celina, M.D. (Respondent), alleging in
two counts that Respondent violated Section 458.33(1)(t) and (v),
Florida Statutes.

Count One of the Administrative Complaint (Complaint)
alleged that Respondent violated Section 458.33(1)(t), Florida
Statutes, by failing to practice medicine with the level of care,
skill, and treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent
similar physician as being acceptable under similar conditions
and circumstances; Count Two of the Complaint alleged that
Respondent violated Section 458.333(1)(v), Florida Statutes, by
practicing or offering to practice beyond the scope permitted by
law or accepting and performing professional responsibilities
which the licensee knew or had reason to know that he was not
competent to perform.

Respondent challenged the charges and timely requested a
formal hearing. On or about March 31, 1999, the Department

forwarded the matter to the Division of Administrative Hearings
for assignment of an Administrat1ve Law Judge t6 cohdhct the
formal hearing. A Notice of Heating issued April 22, 1999, set
the formal hearing fer August 25 and 26, 1999. Subsequently, the
Department filed a unopposed Motion to Continue, which was
granted. The final hearing was then rescheduled for'Septehber 29
and 30, 1999, but waé cancelled after the parties jointly moved

to hold the matter in abeyance. On November 19, 1999, Petitioner

moved to set the case for hearing, and pursuant t6 Notice of

Hearing issued December 28, 1999, the final hearing was scheduled

and conducted as described above.

Prior to the final hearing, Petitioner filed a Notice of
Intent to Deem Admissions as admitted. Upon review of the
record, the undersigned determined that the admissions were
served on Respondent August 25, 1999, and that Respondent failed
to answer or object to said admissions. Therefore, in accordance
with Rule 1.370, Florida Rules of Ciwil Procedure, the matters
contained in the Admissions served upon Respondent are deemed
admitted and required no proof.

At hearing, Petitioner offered and had 14 exhibits received
into evidence. These exhibits included: the video depoaition of
Charles Jackson, M.D. (Exhibit No. 4); the deposition transcript
of Charles Jackson, M.D. (Exhibit No. 6); the video deposition of
Elias Jacobo, MAD. (Exhibit No. 7); and the deposition transcript
of Elias Jacobo, M.D. (Exhibit No‘ 10).

In January 2000, after withdrawing from the case,
Respondent's former attorney, provided Respondent with a copy of
the Notice of Heariné. However, Respondent failed to appear at
hearing and no documentary evidence or testimony was presented on
his behalf.

A copy of the Transcript was filed on March 17, 2000.
Petitioner filed a Proposed Recommended Order on March 27, 2000.

No post—hearing submittal was filed by Respondent.

 

FINDINGS OF FACT

1. Respondent, Ernesto Sinda Colina, M.D. (Respondent), is
Aand has been at all times material hereto, a licensed physician
in the State of Florida, having been issued License
NO. ME-OO31020.

2. Respondent's last known address is 4002 West
1honotosassa Road, Plant City, Florida 33565—8593.

3. 'On or about December 1, 1993, Patient E.C., a 61—year—
old male, presented to the Orlando Vascular Clinic (Clinic) for
evaluation of impotence. Respondent was the physician at the
Clinic who treated Patient E.C.

4. The edaluation included three visits, beginning with
laboratory studies, physical examination, and concluding on
December 7, 1993, with the injection of Prostaglandin E—l into
the corpora of Patient E.C.‘s penis by order of Respondent. The
injection of Prostaglandin E—1 produced an immediate erection
which did not subside and became painful.

5. On December 9, 1993, Patient E.C. contacted the Clinic
complaining of an erection and discomfort and was advised to take
Ibuprofen and pack the penis in ice. HoweVer, the rigidity
persisted.

6. Later on-December 9, 1993, Patient E.C. presented to the
South Seminole Hospital Emergency Room_for further evaluation of
a priapism (persistent erection of the penis, accompanied by pain
and tenderness, resulting from a pathologic condition rather than

sexual desire) of approximately 56 hours' duration.

 

7. On December 9, 1993, Patient E.C. was seen by Elias

Jacobo, M.D., who irrigated Patient E.C.‘s corpora with normal
saline and Heparin, evacuating old clots under sterile conditions
and with antibiotic coverage.

8. On December 10, 1993, Patient E.C. was re-evaluated
because the priapism was continuing.

9. On January 17, 1994, Patient E.C. returned to Dr. Jacobo
due to recurrence of the priapism with tenderness and evidence of
infection. That same day Patient E.C. was edmitted to South
Seminole Hospital (hospital) in Longwood, Florida. ~

10. After Patient E C.'s admission to the hospital, he was
taken to the operating room where his cerpora was drained, ‘
explored, and irrigated with alpha agonist ephedrine. The
surgical procedure was performed by Dr. Jacobo.

11. Patient E.C. was seen in consultation by an infectious
disease specialist and maintained on antibiotics. The diagnosis
was corporitis, which gradually resolved with proper drainage and
antibiotic therapy.

12. An injection of Prostaglandin E»l may be used for the
treatment of impotence. However, once the injection is given,
the physician should monitor the patient‘s progress to determine
what degree of rigidity is achieved ever a given period of time
and then make dosage adjustments. Moreovef, the patient should
be adwised of the potential complications of procedures, such as
priapism and infection. Finally, the patient should be
instructed to return for an evaluation if the rigidity persists

longer than four to six hodrs.

5

#90693“

13. Respondent failed to inform Patient E.C. of the risks
of iatrogenic priapism, and failed to instruct Patient E.C. to
return for immediate evaluation within four to six hours of
persistent rigidity.

14. Ibuprofen has no effect on reversing the effects of the
Prostaglandih E—l. Recommending Ibuprofen and ice packs is
inadequate treatment and is below that level of care. skill, and
treatment which is recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar conditions and
circumstances in the treatment of Patient E.C.

15. The management of impetence with pharmacologic erection
programs with injectible agents should be performed by or under
the supervision of a specialist trained in the treatment of
impotence, such as urology. Respondent had no such specialized
training and the treatment of Patient E.C. without training was
below the standard of care.

.16. Patient‘E.C. suffered permanent damage as a result of
Respondent's treatment] which fell below the standard of care.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

17. The Division of Administrative Hearings has
jurisdiction over the parties to and the subject matter of this
proceeding, pursuant to Sections 120.569, 120.57(1), and 455.225;
Florida Statutes.

18. 'Pursuant to Section 458.331(2), Florida Statutes, the
Board of Medicine is empowered to revoke, suspend, or otherwise

discipline the license of a physician for the offenses enumerated

in Section 458.33l(1), Florida Statutes. Section 458.331,
Florida Statutes, provides in pertinent part:

(1) The following acts shall constitute
grounds-for which the disciplinary actions
specified in subsection (2) may be taken:

ir * it

(t) Gross or repeated malpractice or the
failure to practice medicine with that level
of care, skill, and treatment which is
recognized by a reasonably prudent similar
physician as being acceptable under similar
conditions and circumstancesA

* 3" iv

(v) Practicing or offering to practice
beyond the scope permitted by law or
accepting and performing professional
responsibilities which the licensee knows or
has reason to know that he or she is not
competent to perform.

3" 4: i

(2) When the board finds any person guilty
of any of the grounds set forth in subsection
(1), including conduct that would constitute
a substantial violation of subsection (1)
which occurred prior to licensure, it may
enter an order imposing one or more of the
following penalties:

(a) Refusal to certify, or certification
with restrictions, to the department an
application for licensure, certification, or
registration.

(b) Revocation or suspension of_a licenée.
(c) Restriction of practice.

(d) Imposition of an administrative fine not
to exceed $10,000 for each count or separate
offense. '

(e) Issuance of a reprimandA "' **
(f) Placement of the physician on probation
for a period of time and subject to such
conditions as the board may specify,
including, but not limited to, requiring the
physician to submit to treatment, to attend
continuing education courses, to submit to
reexamination, or to work under the
supervision of another physician.

(9) Issuance of a letter of concern.

I19090“

