k
\
“-
I

r“.
I

k_ STATE OF FLORIDA
BOARD OF MEDECINE

Final om: ND. DnH-y'r—msz Dan: l‘hﬂ-‘H

Fﬂxm
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH Derarrmwmrﬂealm
AGENCYC

  
 

 

Petitioner,

Wary Agency Clerk 5

VS. CASE NO.: 94-05656
LICENSE NO. : ME0055438

GORDON HOWARD ZUERNDORFER, [-2.13

Respondent.

 

N

L”

R

THIS CAUSE came before the Board of Medicine [Board] pursuant to
Sections 120.569 and 120.57t4), Florida Statutes, uh December 5, 1997,
in Heat Palm Beach, Florida, for consideration of a Consent Agreement
{attached hereto as Exhibit A) entered into between the parties in the
ahove—styled cause. Upon consideration of the Consent Agreement, the
documents submitted in support thereof. the arguments of the parties,
and being otherwise advised in the pramises, the Board rejected the
Consent Agreement proposed and offered an amendment, which amendment
was accepted without objection by the parties.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND ADGUDGEB that the Consent Agreement as
submitted be and is hereby apprcved and adopted in toto and
incorporated by reference herein with the following modifications:

1. The CGntinuiEg Medical Education [CMEJ requirement is

increased to 20 hours to he completed within one year frcm the date

1

Lhié Final Order is filed. Said CME Shall be in the area of total hip
replacements.

2. Respondent shall receive a Letter of Concern Exam the Board.

Accordingly, the parties shall adhere to and abide by all the
terms and conditions of the Consent Agreement as amended.

This Final Order shall take effect upon being filed with the

Clerk of the Department of Health.

44
DONE AND ORDERED this Cg“? day of EEG@ 5:2,: ,

BOARD OF MEDICINE

 

JOHN W. GLOTFELTY, M.D.
VICE-CHAIRMAN

F“ FETE ‘ VI
I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing
Final Order has been provided by 0.3. Mail to Gordon Howard
Zuerndorfer, M.D., c/o William B. Taylor, Esquire] McFarlane.

Ferguson & McMullen. Post Office Box 1531, Tampa, Florida 33601; and

EXHIBIT B
STANDARD TERMEAPPLLCABLE T(LCQJVSENI AGREEMEEIS
The following are the standard terms applicable to a_lI consent agreements, including
supenision and monitoring provisions applicable lo licensees on probation.

A. W Unless othemise directed by the consent agreement, all

ﬁnes shall be paid by check or money order and sent to the Board address set forth in paragraph E

,

below. The Board ofﬁce does not have the authority to change the tem of payment of any ﬁne
imposed by the Board.

B. CQMMJJI‘IUY SERVICE AND CONDEJTNG WE UnleSS
otherwise directed by the consent agreement, all comrmmity service requirements, continuing
education unitchourses must be completed, and docmnentaticn of such completion submitted to the
Board of Medicine at the address set forth below in paragraph E, “FITIHN ONE YEAR OF THE
DATE OF THE FINAL ORDER.

C. W. Respondent must keep current residence and practice addresses on
ﬁle with the Bead. Respondent shall notify the Board within ten ( I 0) days of any changes of said
addresses. Furthermore, if the Respondent's license is on probation, the Respondent shall notify
the Board within ten (10) days in the event that Respondent icaves the active practice of medicine
in Florida.

D. m Pursuant to Section 458.331(2), Florida Statutes, the Respondent shall pay
all costs necessary to comply with the terms of this Consent Agreement. Such costs include, but

are not limited to, the costs of preparation of Investigative Reports detailing compliance with the

terms of the Consent Agreement, obtaining supem'sion or monitoring of the practice, the cost of
quality assurance reviews, and the Board's adnu'nistrative costs directly associated with

Respondent's probation.

E. BUAELQ aIEHRFSS Unless otherwise directed by the Board ofﬁce, all ﬁnes,

reports, eorresmndenm and inquiries shall be sent to: Board of Medicine, 1940 North Monroe
Street, TanahESSEE, Florida 32399-0160, Arm: Fina! Order Compliance Ofﬁcer.
F. W If probation was imposed by the Final Order of the Boaxd,
the following provisibm are applicable.
1. m:

a W is supervision by a monitoring
physician (monitor) whose responsibilities are set by the Board. Indirect suptm'ision does not
require that the monitor practice on the same premises as the Respondent, however, the monitor
shall practice within a reasonable geogmphic proximity to Respondeng which shall be within 20
miles unless otherwise pmw'ded by the Board and shall be readily available for consultation. The
monitor shall be Bomd-ceniﬁcd in the Respondent's specialty area unless othenvise provided by the
Board.

b. W is supervision by a supervising physician.
(supervisor) whose responsibilities are set by the Board. Direct supervision requires that the
supervisor and Respondent work in the same ofﬁce. The Supervising physician shall be board—

certiﬁed in the Resmndent's specialty area unless otherwise proﬁded by the Board.

e. W or "committee“ are members of the Board
of Medicine designated by the Chairman ofthe Board to serve as the Probation Committee.

at. W is any restriction, hindrance, requirement,
burden, or responsibility placed by a state medical licensing board upon the medical license of a
physician.

2. W

31. If the terms of the consent agreement include indirect monitoring of the
licensee‘s practice (MONITORING) or direct mnmtoring of the licensees practice
(SUPERVISION), the Respondent shall not practice medicine without an approved
monitorfsupendsor, as speciﬁed by the Consent Agreement, unless otherwise ordered by the Board.

b. The monitor/supervisor must be a licensee under Chapter 458, Florida
Statutes, in good standing and without restriction or limitation on his license. in addition, the
Board or Committee may reject any proposed monitorfsupervisor on the basis that he has
previously been subject to an}.r diseiplmary action against his medical license in this or any other
jurisdiction, is currently under investigation, or is the subject of a pending disciplinaryr action The
monitorfsupervisor must be actively engaged in the same or similar specialty area unless otherwise
provided by the Board or Committee and be practicing within a reasonabie distance of the
Respondent's practice, a distance of no more than twenty (20) miles unless otherwise speciﬁcally
provided for in the consent agreement. The Board 01' Committee may also reject any proposed

meniton’supen'isor for good cause shown.

C. MECHANTSMEQR APERDVWONITQE SEERVISQR:

[1). WAL- The Board confers authority

on the Chairman of the Board‘s Probation Committee to temporarilyr approve Respondent‘s
morﬁmn’supenrisor. To obtain this temporary approval, Respondent shall submit to the Chairman
of the Probation Committee the name and curriculum vitae of the proposed monitorfsupervisor at
the time this agreement is considered by the Board Once a Final Order adopting this Agreement is
ﬁled, Respondent shall not practice medicine without an approved menitorfsupervisor. Temporary
approval shall only remain in effect until the next meeting of the Probation Committee
(2). EEIRMAI, AEEEEEVA! . Respondent shall have the

monitort‘supervisor with him at his first probation appearance before the Probation Committee.
Prior to cansideration of the monitorfsupervisor by the Committee, the Respondent shall provide to
the moniton‘supervisnr a copy of the Administrative Complaint and Final Order in this case
Respondent shall submit a current curriculum vitae and a description of current practice from the
proposed momtertsupem'sor to the Beard ofﬁce no tater than fourteen days before the Respondent's
ﬁrst scheduled probation appealancc. Respondent‘s monitor/supewisor shall also appear before the
Probation Committee at such other times as directed by the Committee. I! shall he Respondent's
responsibility to ensure that the appearance of his mmﬁtorfsupen'isor as directed. Failure of the
monitort’supem'sor to appear as directed shall constitute a viotation of the terms of this Stipulation
and shall subject the Respondent to disciplinary action.

d. mm. In the event that
Respondent's monjturlsupewisor is unable or unwilling to fulﬁl his responsibilities as a

monitort'supen'iser as described above, then the Re5poudent shall immediately advise the Board of

10

this fact. Respondent shall Immediately submit to the Chairman of the Board's Probation
Committee the name of a temporary monitorlsupenisor for consideration, Respondent shall not
practice pending approval of this temporary monitorfsupervisor h)? the Chajnnan of the Probation
Committee. Furthermore, Respondent shail make arrangements with his temporary
nmniterz‘supervisor to appear before the Probation Committee at its next regularly scheduled
meeting for consideration of the monitorfsupervisor by the Committee. Respondent shall only
practice under the auspices of the temporaryr monitorlsupervisor (approved by the Chairman) until
the next regularly SChEdulEd meeting of the Probation Committee whereat the issue of the
Committee's approval of the Respondent's new monitorlsupervisor shall be addressed.
3. W
a. HJLLIEQ PRQEISIQNS. In the event the Respondent leaves the

'State of Florida for a period of thirty days or more or otherwise does not engage in the active
practice of medicine in the State of Florida. then certain provisions of Respondent's probation (and
only those provisions of the probation} shall be tolled as enumerated below and shall remain in a
tolled status until Respondent returns to active practice in the State ofFlorida:

(1} The time period Dfprobation shall be tolled.

(2). The provisions regarding supervision whether direct or indirect
by another physician1 and required reports from the monitorfsupervisor shall be tolled.

(3). The provisions regerd'mg preparation of investigative reports
detailing compliance with this Stipulation shall be tolled.

[4). Any provisions regarding community service shall be telled.

ll

b._ W. In lbs event that Respondent leaves the

active practice ofmedicinc for a period of one year or more, the Probation Comminec may require
Respondent to appear before the Probation Committee and demonstrate his ability to practice

medicine with skill and safety to patients prior to resuming the practice Dfmedicine in this State.

12

STATE OF FLORIDA-
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE
ADMINISTRATION,

PETITIONER,

VS. CASE NO. 94-05666

GQRDON HOWARD ZUERNDORFER, N.D-

RESPONDENT.
I

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT

 

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Agency for Health Care
Administration, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner," and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
Gordon Howard Zuerndorfer, n.0, hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent," and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.155, Florida
statutes; Section 20.42, Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida
Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed phy5ician in ihe State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0055438. Respondent's last known address is 3131
N. chullen Booth Road, Clearwater, FL 34621.

3. Respondent's specialty is orthopedic surgery and he is

board certified.

4. On or about September 19, 1989, Patient R.H., a fifty-
nine (59} year old male, presented to Respondent on referral for
complaints of low back pain radiating down into the right thigh.

5. Respondent examined Patient R.M. and noted that he had
full range of motion in all joints of the lower extremities and
back. Respondent further noted that Patient R.H. had a history of
recent low back x—rays showing arthritis of the lumbosacral spine
and a Computerized Tomography (CT) scan Showing bulging discs at
multiple levels of the lumhosaeral spine.

5. Respondent's initial impression was that the bulging
discs were not clinically significant and he diagnosed lumbosacral
arthritis with a secondary sciatica due to inflammation.
Respondent told Patient R.M. to take Motrin, Advil or Nuprin for
pain relief, and he referred Patient R.H. for physical therapy.

7. Patient R.H. underwent physical therapy three (3) times
per week for approximately two (2) months, but his condition
worsened.

E. On or about November 17, 1989, Patient R.M. returned to
Respondent’s office with continuing Complaints of back and leg
pain. Patient R.H. was noted to have pain in the right hip
extending down the right thigh to the knee. Respondent gave
Patient R.M. a prescription for Naprosyn and told him to return in
a few Weeks for x—rays of the right hip.

9. On or about December 3, 1939, Patient R.M. presented to

Respondent for Xarays of his right hip and right knee. The x-rays

wefe interpreted by the radiologist as showing a normal hip and
knee.

lo.- Respondent interpreted Patient R.M.'s right hip x—ray as
showing moderate degenerative changes in the right hip joint. On
the basis of his interpretation of the x-ray and a negative
straight leg raising test, Respondent recommended that Patient R.M.
undergo total hip replacement surgery.

11. Respondent failed to order a Magnetic Resonance Imaging
(MRI) or a Computerized Tomography (CT) scan of Patient R.M.’s
lumbar spine to assess the complaints of low back pain.

12. On or about January 2, 1990, Patient R.M. was admitted to
HCA Largo Hedical Center where Respondent performed a press fit
total right hip replacement on him. During the surgery, Respondent
noted operative findings of ercsive changes throughout the
acetabulum (the cup shape depression on the outer aspect of the
hiphone for the reception of the head of the femur) and changes in
the femoral head.

l3. The patholngist who examined Patient R.M.'5 resected
right femoral head failed to note any degenerative changes.
Instead, the pathologist noted that the femoral head had a grayish-
tan articular surface with a smooth appearance. Respondent’s
operative raport for the procedure was in direct opposition to the
pathology report.

14. Following the surgery, Patient R.M. developed a right
foot drop and he was subsequently discharged from the hospital on

or about January 11, 1996, with instructions to not bear weight on

thé right 10Wer extremity. Patient R.M. was also given a brace for
the right foot drop.

15. On or about February 7, 1990, Patient R.M. returned to
Respondent for a follow—up examination. Respondent noted a
persistent foot drop and he told Patient R.h. to continue using the
brace. Patient R.M. was also allowed full weight bearing on the
right extremity at this time.

16. Over the next few months, Patient R.M. developed severe
pain in the right hip and low back which limited his ability to
walk for more than short distances. Patient R.M. was subsequently
placed on total disability because of his inability to work.

17. Respendent practiced medicine below the acceptable
Standard of care in that Respondent failed to adequately aseess
Patient R.M.’s condition by ruling out an upper level lumbar
condition prior to performing total right hip replacement on
Patient R.M. A reasonably prudent physician would have further
evaluated Patient R.M.’s back pain to determine that the back pain
was not the primary cause of the hip pain.

18. Regpondent failed to appropriately diagnose Patient
R.M.’s condition. A reasonably prudent physician would have
diagnosed degenerative disc disease resulting in spinal stenosis
and neureforaminal stenosis cauaing radicular pain to the hip and
groin. Reapondent’s misdiagnosis resulted in the performance of an
inappropriate hip replacement .

19. Respondent failed to pursue a conservative plan of

treatment prior to performing hip replacement 5urgery.

. . I I

' by fnteroffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr.. Chief Attorney,
Agency for Health Care Administration, 2727 Mahan Drive, Tallahassee,

Flcrida 32308—5403, on or before 5:0D p.m., this day of

1M.

 

.I-
,—

' ' 20. Respondent misinterpreted Patient R.M.‘s symptoms as
indicating a degenerative right hip; and failed to order an MRI or
CT scan of Patient R.M.'s lower back prior to performing hip
surgery on Patient R.M.

21. Respondent failed to maintain appropriate medical records
in that dicatation in the operative report regarding Patient R.M.'s
joint condition is in direct opposition to the pathology report.

QQEEE_QE§

22. Petitioner realleqas and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through twenty—one (21), as if fully set forth herein this Count
One.

23‘ Respondent failed to practice medicine within the
acceptable level of care in that ReSpondent failed to adequately
assess Patient R.M.’s condition by ruling out an upper level lumbar
condition prior to performing total right hip replacement,
Respondent failed ta appropriately diagnose Patient R.M.’s
condition, Respondent failed to pursue a conservative plan of
treatment prior to performing hip rep1acement surgery, Respondent
misinterpreted Patient R.M.'s symptoms as indicating a degenerative
right hip; and failed to order an MRI or CT scan of Patient R.M.'s
lower back prior to performing hip surgery on Patient R.M.

24. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent has
violated Section 453.331(1)(t), Florida Statutes, through gross or
repeated malpractice or the failure to practice medicine with that

level of care, skill, and treatment which is recognized by a

J.-. I

'reasenably trudent similar physician as being acceptable under
similar conditions and circumstances.
mm Two

25. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through tuenty-one {21) and twenty-three'(23), as if fully set
forth herein this Count Two.

26. Respondent failed to maintain appropriate medical records
in that dicatation in the operative report regarding Patient R.H.'s
joint condition is in direct opposition to the pathology report.

27. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331(1)(m), Florida Statutes, failing to keep written medical
records justifying the course of treatment of the patient,
including, but not limited ta, patient histories; examination
results; test results; records of drugs prescribed, dispensed, or
administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations.

WHEREFGRE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board

of Medicine enter an Order imposing One or more of the following
penalties: permanent revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s
license, restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Reepondent on probation, the assessment of costs related to the
investigation and prosecution of this case, other than costs
associated with an attorney's time, as provided for in Section
455.22?(3), Florida Statutes, andfor any other relief that the

Board deems appropriate.

' SIGNED this d2 day of ?M . 1995.

Douglas M. 0k, Director

      

  

 

Léfr G. cPherso , 3:.
Chi Medical Attorney

COUNSEL FOR THE AGENCY:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.

Chief Medical Attorney

Agency for Health Care Administration
1940 North Monroe Street

Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792

Florida Bar #738643 I Fl L E D

Rpcxcebxjto AGENCYFOFI
pep: February 25, 1995 HEAL'rHcmswwmsmAmN

EPUTY
M%

DATE 3 - “‘2?

AMENDED CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing Order has been provided
by certiﬁed mail to Gordon H. Zuemdordcr. Diagnostic Clinic, 3131 N . McMullen Booth
Road. Clearwater, FL 3462], William B. Taylor. Esquire, P.0. Box 1531, Tampa. FL
33601! and interofﬁce delivery to Larry McPherson. Jr. , Chief Attorney. 2727 Mahan Drive.
Tallahassee, Florida 32308—5403, at or bcfurc 5:00 p,m._. Lhis day of

, 1997.

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF MEDICINE

AGENCY FOR HEALTH
CARE ADMNISTRATION,

PE'I'ITIONER,

V.

A_HCA CASENO‘ 94-05666
GORDON ZUERNDORFER, M.D.,

Respondent.
____f

WM
Gordon Zuemdorfer, M.D., referred to as the "Respondent," and the Agency For Heath
Can: Ach11injstraticm1 referred to as “Agency,” stipulate and agree to the following Agreement and
t0 the entry of a Final Order of the Board Of Medicine, referred to 215 “Board," incorporating the

Stipulated Facts and Sﬁpuiated Disposition in this matter.

STlPLﬂA I E-,D EAL I S_

I. At all times material hereto, Rcsmndcm was a licensed physician in the State of Florida
haying been issued license number ME0029249.

2. Respondent was charged by an Admirﬁmative Complaint ﬁled by the Agency and
properly servad upon Respondent with violations of Chapter 455 and Chapter 453, Florida Statutes,
and the. rulas enacted pursuant thereto. A true and correct mpy of the Admhﬁstraﬁve Complaint is

attached hereto as Exhibit A.

3. Respondent neither admits nor denies the aliegations of fact contained in the
Administrative Complaint.

ST1PMD CQI‘ICLUSIQNSQFILAW

1. Respondent admits that, in his capacity as a licensed physician, he is subject to the
provisions of Chapter 455 and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, and the jurisdiction of the Department
and the Board.

2. Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the Admirﬁstrative Complaim, if prawn,-
would constitute violations of Chapter 458, Florida Statutes, as alleged in the Administrative
Complaint.

D D].

1. mm Respondent shall not in the future violate Chapter 458, Florida

Statutes, or the rules promuigaled pumuam thereto.
2. EM. The Bomd shall impose an administrative ﬁne in the amount of ﬁve thousand

dollars (55,000) against the RespondenL The ﬁne shall be paid by the Respondent to the Board of

Medicine within miner}' (99) days of Lhe ﬁling of the Final Order ofthe Bead,

3, ﬁgmjnging Meﬁjca] Edgeatjgn Within one (1) year eat)» of the Final Order. The
Respondent shall complete ﬁve (5) hams CMZE in interpreting x-mys, and ﬁve (5) hours in
diagnosing back and hip problems. Respondent shall submit a written plan to the Chairman of the
Board for approval prior to the completion of said continuing edueation hours and course. The
Board confers authority on the Chairman of the Boaxd to approve or disapprove said continuing

education hours or course. In addition, Respondent shall submit decumemation in the form of

certiﬁed copies of the receipts, vouchers, certiﬁcates, or other papers, such as physician's

recognition awards, documenting completion of this medical course within one (1) year ufthe entry

of the Final Ordar in this matter. All web ﬁngggmmajjgg shall L'rg 5gp; 1;; (b; ligand 91 Mgdig'mg!
w are r fu t' w vim] v'c

mursc Qﬂmy audit or disguision with COuusdszthlLAgmx- These hours shall be in addition to
those hours required for renewal of licensure. Unless otherwise approved by the Board, said
continuing medical education course shall consist ofa formal, live lecture format.

4. QUA! 3 A55! [BAHQE ASSEﬁSMI-N : The ReSpondem shall contact a qualified
Risk Manager for the purpose of reviewing the Respondent’s practice withm nine (9) month ofthe
imposition of the Final Order of the Board. The consultant’s report shall be submitted to the Board
of Medicine within nine (9) months of imposition of Lhe Final Ordﬁr of Lhe Board. A1 The time the
Respondent submits the consultant’s report, he shall also submit veriﬁcation that he has
implemented any recommendations made concernhlg his practice in th: report, The Quality
Assurance Review shall consist of a review of the last ten (1 0) cases where hip replacement
was performed, to he sure he is in compliance with all laws and regulatians that affect the
practice of medicine in Florida. The Quality Assmnnce Assessment shall be completed and
turned in to the Board of Medicine wilhin nine (9) months of the ﬁling of Lhe Final Order of the
Board, unless additional time is granted for good cause by the Board ofMedicine.

THIE RESPONDENT ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE TIMIELY PRESENTATION
OF THE QUALITY ASSURANCE ASSESSMENT IS ISIS LEGAL OBLIGATION AND

RESPONSIBILITY, AND THIS RESPONDENT AGREES TO CEASE PRACTICING IF

THE QUALITY ASSWCE ASSESSBIENT IS NOT CODIIPLETED AND PRESENTED
TO THE BOARD OF MEDICINE W1THIN NINE (9) MONTHS OF THE FILING OF
THIS FINAL ORDER. IF THE RESPONDENT HAS INOT RECEIVED WRITTEN
CONFLRIHATION THAT THE QUALITY ASSURANCE ASSESSMENT HAS BEEN
RECEIVED BY THE BOARD OF EVIEDICINE W'ITI—Im NINE {9) MONTHS OF THE
FILING OF THIS FINAL ORDER, THE RESPONDENT AGREES TO CEASE
PRACTICE UNTIL SUCH WRITTEN CONFIRMATION IS RECEIVED BY THE

RESPONDENT F ROM THE BOARD.

A. Sammy; EBQVJSIQHS‘ probation shall be governed by the attached

 

"Standard Terms App‘icable to Consent Agreements”, Exhibit B, which is incorporated as if fully
set forth herein.

5. It is expressly understood that this Agreement is subject tn the approval of the Board and
the Agency. In this regard, the foregoing paragraphs {and only the foregoing paragraphs) shall have
no force and effect unless a Final Order incorporating the terms of this Agreement is entered by the
Board.

6. The Re5pondent shall appear before the Board at the meeting of the Board where this
Agreement is considered. The Respondent, in conjunction with the consideration of this
Agreement by the Board, shall respond to questions under oath ﬁom the Board, Board Staﬁ‘ or
Agency 5133". The Respondent shall be piepared to explain the circumstances involved in this

matter and what measures have been taken to prevent a rectu-rence.

7. Should this AgTeement be rejected, no statement made in ﬁtrtherahce of this Agreement
by the Respondent may be used as direct evidence against the Respondent in any proceeding;
however, such statements may be used by the Petitioner for impeaehment purposes.

8, Respondent and the Agency ﬁiliy understand that this joint Agreement and subsequent
Final Order incomorat'mg same will in no way preclude additional proceedings by the Board andfor
the Agency against the Respondent for acts or omissions not Speciﬁme set forth in the
Administrative Complaint attached as Exhibit A herein.

9. Upon the Board's adaption of this Agreement, the Respondent expressly waives ail
ﬁmher procedural steps and expressly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to otherwise
challenge or contest the validity of the Agreement and the Final Order of the Board incorporating
said Agreement.

10. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement, the parties hereby agree that each party
will hear his CWT] attorney's fees and costs resuiting from prosecution or defense of this matter.
ReSpondent waives the right to seek any attorney's fees or costs from the Agency in connection
with this matter.

11. This Agreement is executed by the Respondent for the putposc of avoiding further
admhﬁstrative action with respect to this cause. In this regard, Respondent authorizes the Board to
review and examine all investigative ﬁle materials concerning Respondent prior to or in
conjunction with consideration of the Agreement. Furthermore, should this joint Agreement not be

accepted by the Board, it is ageed that presentation to and consideration of this Agreement and

. . @nnz ‘
r 0:53 P.“ I
..},1.K?EG°ZH§§}J;114:au MACH] .N‘E, Fancuson TEL:&]32154396 ' p509

-’ J. .199? ‘ mama magma ’

SIGNED this £35.? or ﬁr/mér 1997.
W
' mdarrar,MD.
I
Eafme me, personally @me who“ idcnﬁty i5
Imam to ma by -k7i1uu.-\ ﬁg (11 .

[mx- of idmﬁﬁcaﬁnn] and who, unda- 0:113,

 

nclcnowicdgcs lbs} 1115mm iignﬁt'me appms above.

_ 1w
S‘Jzammandsubsnibcdbafmmcthis (Q‘i/dnyuf

 

    

APPROVED this é: day ow. 1997.

D‘nuglas Con}:

‘ By: Lam! G. M: an, Jr._
{Haidmtumsy
Medical Secﬁnn

 

'D} 'd 962? EU! ”Bi'lﬂl NﬂSﬂﬁHHi '3N?‘1HHOVH $11191 El'lHJJiE .90- 'AOK
c .

