STATE OF FLORIDA H
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION“
BOARD OF MEDICINE

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE
ADMINISTRATION, BOARD OF
MEDICINE,

Petitioner,

V. CASE NUMBER: 94-09359
LICENSE NUMBER: ME 0011349

THOMAS R‘ STEPHENSON’ M'D" meOMaNmAHcmwmmsnhwégzﬂr

 

BLED
Respondent . Agency for Hcallh Cure Adminialmlion
/ AGENCYCLERK
R.S. Power, Agcnc Clerk
By: M
FINAL ORDER Deputy Agency Clerk

THIS CAUSE came before the Board of Medicine (Board) pursuant
to Section 120.57(2), Florida Statutes, on June 10, 1995, in
Gainesville, Florida, for consideration of the Administrative
Complaint (attached hereto as Exhibit A) in the above-styled cause.
At the hearing, Petitioner was represented by Larry G. McPherson,
Jr., Medical Attorney. Respondent was not present at the hearing.
The parties have been properly noticed of the hearing. Based upon
the Motion for Final Order an informal hearing will be held
pursuant to Section 120.57(2), Florida Statutes. Accordingly, the
facts are not contested. Upon consideration of the Administrative
Complaint filed against Respondent, Motion for Final Order, and the
arguments presented, and having been otherwise fully advised in its
premises, the Board of Medicine makes the following findings and
conclusions:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. On February 6, 1995, the Agency for Health Care

Administration filed an Administrative Complaint against Thomas R.

Stephenson, M.D., seeking to take disciplinary actieh against his
license to practice medicine in the state of Fierida.

2. The Board adopts as its findings of fact the allegations
set forth in paragraphs 1—6, 8-9, 11—12 of the Administrative
Complaint filed in this cause and which is attached to this Final
Order and incorporated herein by reference.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. The Board has jurisdiction over the parties and subject
matter of this case pursuant to Section 120.57(2), Florida statutes
and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Respondent
violated Section 458.33l(1)(b) and (kk), Florida Statutes and
having determined that violations exist, it is appropriate for the
Board to impose disciplinary action against the license of Thomas
R. Stephenson, M.D.

DISPOSITION

WHEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED and ADJUDGED that Respondent
has violated Sections 458.331(1)(b) and (kk), Florida Statutes, the
Respondent shall receive the following penalty:

1. Upon the filing of the final order in this cause,
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of Florida
is hereby suspended until such time as his license practice
medicine in the State of California is unencumbered and until
Respondent can appear before the Board and establishes that he can
practice medicine with reasonable skill and safety. Upon
reinstatement, Respondent's license to practice medicine in the

State of Florida shall be placed on probation with terms and

conditions to be set at the time of reinstatement.

This Final Order becomes effective upon ite filing with the

clerk of the Agency for Health Care Administration.
NOTICE

The Parties are hereby notified that they may appeal this

District Court of Appeal within thirty (30) days of the date this

Final Order is filed.

DONE and ORDERED this 207 day of %:t~m.9-/ , 1995.

BOARD OF MEDICINE

{6&7 5,44% ole” é
GA Y E. WINCHESTER, M.D.

CHAIRMAN

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

 

I THEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Final Order has been proved by certified mail to Thomas
R. Stephenson, M.D., Route 1, Box 72, Harlem, Montana 59526 and by
interoffice delivery to Larry G. McPherson, Jr., Chief Medical
Attorney, Agency for Health Care Administration, 1940 North Monroe

Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399—0792, at or before 5:00 p.m.,

this ?gc> day of g §L~$~L/ , 1995.
(/5ﬁ25ﬁ34rp7 /'¢£,1.4p41a91

Marm Harris, Ed.D.
Executive Director

 

STATE OF FLORIDA _
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATIONQ:
BOARD OF MEDICINE

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE
ADMINISTRATION,
PETITIONER,
vs. CASE NO. 94-09359

THOMAS R. STEPHENSON, M.D.

RESPONDENT .
/

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINI

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Agency for Health Care

 

Administration, hereinafter referred to as "Petitioner,“ and files
this Administrative Complaint before the Board of Medicine against
Thomas R. Stephenson, M.D. hereinafter referred to as "Respondent,"
and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating
the practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.165, Florida
Statutes; Section 20.42, Florida Statutes; Chapter 455, Florida
Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto
a licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued
license number ME 0011349. Respondent’s last known address is
11645 Wilshire Blvd., #1150, Los Angeles, California 90025-1787.

3. Respondent's specialty is plastic surgery and he is not
board certified.

4. The Medical Board of California, Division of Medical

Quality is the licensing agency in that state authorized to take

/§

disciplinary action against the medical licenses of physicians
practicing medicine in California. «, F

r

5. On or about March 10, 1994, the Medical Board of
California filed a pecisign in Case No. D—4667 which suspended
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in California for 120
days and placed Respondent’s license on probation for ten (10)
years. The action taken by the California board was based upon
findings that Respondent had practice medicine belou'the acceptable
standard of care, failed to keep adequate medical records, and
improperly advertised that he was board certified.

6. Respondent failed to notify the Florida Board of
Medicine, in writing, within 30 days of the action taken against
his license to practice medicine by the State of California.

QQEHI_QHE

7. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through six (6) as if fully set forth herein this Count One.

8. Respondent had his license to practice medicine acted
against in another jurisdiction in that Respondent's license to
practice medicine in the State of California was suspended for 120
days and placed on ten (10) years probation by the licensing
authority of that jurisdiction.

9. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent has
violated Section 458.331(1)(b), Florida Statutes, by having a
license or the authority to practice medicine revoked, suspended,
or otherwise acted against, including the denial of licensure, by

the licensing authority of any jurisdiction, including its agencies

or subdivisions. The licensing authority's acceptance of a
physician's relinquishment of a license, stipulation, consent
order, or other settlement, offered in response to or in
anticipation of the filing of administrative charges against the
physician’s license, shall be construed as action against the
physician's license.

OUNT TWO

10. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through six (6) and paragraph eight (8) as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

11. Respondent failed to notify the Florida Board of
Medicine, in writing, within 30 days of the action taken against
his license to practice medicine by the State of California.

12. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent has
violated Section 458.331(1)(kk), Florida Statutes, by failing to
report to the board, in writing, within 30 days if action as
defined in paragraph (b) has been taken against one’s license to

practice medicine in another state, territory, or country.

WHEREFORE, the Petitioner respectfully requests the Board of
Medicine enter an Order imposing one or more of the following
penalties: permanent revocation or suspension of the Respondent’s
license, restriction of the Respondent’s practice, imposition of an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, placement of the
Respondent on probation, and/or any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate.

SIGNED this 3 day of 7.56214sz , 1995.

Douglas M. Caok,'Director

 

COUNSEL FOR THE AGENCY:

Larry G. McPherson, Jr.
Chief Medical Attorney

Agency for Health Care Administration

1940 North Monroe Street FAGIEfI‘l-éYEFOﬁD
Tallahassee Florida 32399-0750

Florida Bar'f788643 HEALTH CAREADMINISTRATION
WFW/ceb DEPUTYCLERK

PCP: January 27, 1995 CLERK abmz C¢/é>;€

Katims, Diblan, Fenwick ,
DATELWQ

