 

STATE OF FLORIEA
BOARD OF MEDICINE

* c
Fxml ow x.» Anmmmu rm: §§j~ f7
AGENCW FOR HEALTH CARE M?VED
ADMINIS?RATION.

Agency Rs.- Iinwh (23m Admmstmian
AGENCY CLERK

KS. ?uwr, A 2L13: "Chis
By: am (A Mam...
?etitioner,

Deputy Awgcncy Ciai

CASE BECK: 94~ﬂ§§24
LICENSE 160.: MEOQESQ33

. r

MICHAEL L‘ SAFER, M.D

Resgandent.
¢”______~________m_mmwm~m_~h_J
Ezaaa_ngn§3
?st CEUSE came bafare tha Board of Medicine {Board}

pursuant to

sections 120.56? aaé £20.57K4), Fiorida Statutes, on February 7, 2997,
in Orlando, Florida, for consideraticn of a‘Cansent Agreement

{atcached herato as Exhibét A} entered into between the parciea in the

abovemstyled causal Ugon consideration cf the Consent Agreement, the

ﬁocummnts submitted in ﬁupporc thereof. the arguments oi the parties,

and being otherwise advisea in the premise$,

incorporated by reference herein. Accordingly, the parties shall

 

 

 

 

 

     

This Final Order ghall take effect upon being filed with the

Cierk of the Agency Eor Health Care Administration,

1
130% AND naamm this W day of M(M \_\ , 1997‘,

 

BOARD OF MEDICINE

9' ”\

ﬁg}; 5”" 5;; i
a J WM“?

EDWARD A. SAUEE, M.B.
CﬂéligERSON

EERIEEIEAIE~QEMSEREIQE
E HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct cagy cf the foregoing
Einal Order has been,proviéed by certified mail to Michael L. Safer,
M.D.. c/o Michaal JV Kern, Esquire, Boat office Box 559700,
$acksonville, Florida 32255-0700; and by interoffice delivery to Larry
E. Mayherson, Jr., Chieﬁ Attorney, Agency for ﬁealth Care
Administration, 2727 Mahan Drive, Tallahassee, Plaxida 32308-5403, on

dz befora 5:00 p.m . this day of

, 1997.
M__*._.__ﬂ_.__*mm

 

 

 

 

 

SIGNEDIhis gyi‘aayorgxmtm

@3/

Michael L fer. MD.

 

Before me. personal!) appeared mlgﬂﬁﬂ @310ch identity is known to me by
“31;; (type of identification) and who. under oath, ackmwledgcs that his/he:
signature appears above.

Sworn to and subscribed bcfon: me (his gzjii'ay 0%1996.

NOTARY F%UC %

My commission Expires:

10

APPROVED this ’7 day a;

 

11

   
  

.199E

Douglas M. Cook
Dimct

   

n‘y G. M
Chjcf Attorney
Medical Section

 

 

EXHIBIT B
[CABLE TO CONSENT AGREEMENTS

The foﬂowing are the standard terms applicable to ail Consent Agreements. including

STANDARD TERMS A991.

supervision and monitoring provisions applicabic (a licensees on probation.

paragraph P, below. The Bond ofﬁce does not have the authority to‘changc the berm; of

payment of any ﬁrm imposed by the Board.

. WITHIN ONE YEAR OF
THE DATE OF THE MAL ORDER.
C WS R i N. Unless otherwise directed by the
Consent Agrccmens

12

 

Respondent's probation.

F. W- Unless otherwise directed by the Board ofﬁce, all ﬁnes.

reports. correspondence and inquiries shall be sent 10: Board of Medicine,
Monroe Street, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792

G. Rm 1! probation was hnposcd by the Finai Order of the:
Board. the following provisiom are applicable:
1. WI
3. D U? 0

i3 supervision by a monitoring
physician (monitor), physicians assistant. mpkaxory care pmczizioner‘ as set forth in the Consent

Agreement. whoa: rcsponsibiiitics ate set by the Board. Indirecx supervision does not requim
(ha! the monitor practice on the same premiss as the Respondent. however. the monitor shall

practice within a reasonable gcographic proximity to Wndem, which shall be within 20 miles

13

'tmiess otherwise provided by the Board and shall be readily available for consultation. The

b. RVI N . is supervision by a supervising physician

(supervisot), physicians assistant, mspimtmy care practitioner. as set forth in the Consent
Agreement. whose: msponsibilitiw are set by the Board. Direct supervision requires that the
supervisor and Respondent work in the: same ofﬁCc. The supervisor shall be board-ccniﬁed in
the Respondent’s specialty area unless otherwise provided by the Board.

c. 23035110»: QQMMIIIEE or "committcc" are members 01' the

Board of Medicine designated by the Chairman of the Board to serve as thc Probation

Committee.
2. ED V13

3. If the terms of the Consent Agreement include indirect monitoring
of the licensee’s practice (MONITORING) or direct monitoring of the licensees practice
(SUPERVISION), the Respondent shall not practice medicine without an approved

mnnitor/supcrvisor, as speciﬁed by the Consult Agmmm, unless otherwise ordered by the
Board.

b. The monitorlsupcrvisor must be a Iiccnsvx undcr Chapter 458.

any other jurisdiction. is currently under investigation. or is the subject of a pending discipiinazy

14

 

action. '11:: Monitor/supervisor must be activciy engaged in the same or similar specialty area
unless ocrwrwisc provided by

V O TRJ’UP

(1). T - Y R V L. Tthoardconfersaulhox-ixy

on me Gminnan of the Board‘s Probation Committee :0 temporariiy approve Respondent’s
monitor/supcrvisor.

 

d. ANG 1‘ SUP V18 . In Ihe event that
Rcspondent's moniterlsupcrvisor is unable ,or unwilling to fulﬁll his responsibilitiw as a

monitor/supervisor as dcscribed above, then the Respondent ska}! immcdiatcly advise the Board

a. IQLLIEG PBQVISJQES. In the event the Respondent lcavcs the

State of Florida far a period of miny days or more or othcmise does not or may not engage in
the acme practice of medicine in the State of Florida, then certain provisions of RcSpondcm’s
probation (and only those provisions of tho probationkhall be miicd as cnummted below and

shall remain in a toned sums until Respondent mums to active practice in :11: Stat: of Florida:

16

 

 

(1), The time period of probation shall be rolled.

(2), The provisions regarding supervision whcxhcr dimer or

indirect by the monitor/supcrvisor. and required reports from the monitorlsupcrvisor shall be
rolled.

(3) The provisions regarding preparation of investigative reports
dtmﬂing compliance with this Slipuiation shall be tolled.

(4). Any provisions regarding community service shall be zoﬂed.

5. mm. In the cvem that Respondent leaves Lb:

respiratory therapy in this Smte.

l7

   

STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATIOR
BOARD OF HBDICINE

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE
ADMINISTRATION,

PE‘I'ITIONER,

vs. CASE NO. 9&‘09524

MICRAEL L. SAFER, M.D.,

RESPONDENT.
/
M

W

COMES NOW the Petitioner, Agency for Health care

and alleges:

1. Petitioner is the state agency charged with regulating the

practice of medicine pursuant to Section 20.42, Florida Statutes;

Chapter 455, Florida Statutes; and Chapter 458, Florida Statutes.

2. Respondent is and has been at all times material hereto a

licensed physician in the State of Florida, having been issued

license number KB 0035933. Respondent’s last known aﬂdress 15 Post

Office Box {1105, Jacksonville, Florida 32203~1105.

3. Respondent's area of practice is Addiction Medicine.

4. On or about February 23, 1993, Patient SJ’. presented to

the Greenfield Center for examination and treatment related to

alcohol dependency.

 

 

 

STATE OF FLORIDA
AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE ADMWISTRATION

AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE
ADMINISTRATION,

Petitioner.

v. AHCA Case No. 94-09524

MICHAEL L. SAFER, M.D.,

Respondent.
I
M

ON A

Midas! L. Safer, M.D., refuted to as the "Respondent.” and the Agency for Health

Care Administration, referred to as “Agency. ” stipulate and agree to the following Agreement

" and to the cmxy of a Fina! Order of the Board of Medicine. referred to as ”Board,”
incorporating the Stipulamd Facts and Stipulalcd Disposition in this matter.

W
1. At all times mateﬁal hereto, Respondent was a Jicensed physician in the State of
' Florida having been issued license number ME 0035933.

2. Respondcm was charged by an Admhﬁsmﬁvc Complaint ﬁled by the Agency and

; pmpcrly served upon Rcspondcm wizh violaﬁons m“ Chaim: 458, Florida Sumtemnd the rules

enacted pursuant thereto. A {me and correct copy of the Amninistmtive Complaint is attached
I hereto as Exhﬂait A.

3. Rewondcnr admits the allegations of fact contained in the Admimsmtivc

Complaint for purposcs of these proceedings only.

 

 

5. Patient s.F. was examined by the Clinical Director who 18

not licensed by the Agency to practice medicine.

6. During her initial evaluation,

Patient S.P. advised the
Clinical Director that she had been on an Antabuse program in the

7. On or about March 25, 1993, the Clinical Director gava

Patient 5.33. a prescription,

signed by the Respondent, for Antabusa
250 nag. with six refills.

8. Respondent’s medical records fail to reflect the

prescription of Antabuse 250 mg. with six refills that he signed

and issued for Patient 8.2".

9. Respondent's medical records fail to reflect t

he nature
of Patient 5.1%

's complaint, diagnosis, plan of treatment and

justification for prescribing Antabuse 250 mg.

10. Antabuse is defined as a

lagend drug by Section
465.003(7), Florida statutes,

a patient when they are in a state or alcohol intoxication, or

without their full knowledge as concomitant use with alcohol may,

result in respiratory distress,
collapse, and even death.

in severe cases, cardiovascular

Physicians are cautioned to instruct
patients accordingly.

11. Prior to prescribing Antabuse for Patient 8.1”. Respondent

failed to personally assess Patient 5.F. ’3 complaints and symptoms;

take a complete and proper history; perform a physical examination;

and to fully intom Patient 3.3.

of the Antnbusenalcohol reaction
it

she failed to abstain Eton consuming alcohel while taking the

2

 

 

 

Ahtabuse. Respondent instead delegated and relied entirely on the
evaluation or Patient s.?. by the Clinical Director, a person not

licensed by the Agency to practice medicine.

12. On or about February 28, 1994:, Patient 5.F. refilled the
Antabuse prescribed for her by the Respondent.

13. Respondent failed to examine and monitor Patient SJ.

including, but not limited to, patient histories; examination
results; test results in that Respondent failed to document the

prescription of Antabuse 250 mg. with six refills that he signed

Patient S.F.’s complaint, diagnosis, plan of treatment and
justification for prescribing Antabuse 250 mg.

17. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section
458.331 (1) (a), Florida statutes, failing to keep written medical
records justifying the course 01? treatment or the patient,

including, but not limited to, patient histories; axaaination

 

 

 

 

H results; test results; records or drugs prescribed, dispensed, or

administered; and reports of consultations and hospitalizations.

952mm

Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through fourteen (14) and sixteen (16) above as if fully set forth
herein this Count Two.

19.

tar Patient S.F. Respondent failed to personally assess Patiant

SJ“. ’5 complaints and symptams; take a complete and proper history;

perform a physical examination;

one year that she was taking the Antahuse he prescribed to: her.
20. Based on the preceding allegations,

Section 458.33111Ht), Florida statutes,

Respondent violated

 

21. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)

through tcurtean (143, sixteen (16) and nineteen (19) above, as it

fully set forth herein this Count Three.

22. Respondent inappropriately prescribed a legend drug in

that prior to prescribing Antabuse for Patient S.F. Respondent

failed to personally assess Patient 5.1-2 ’5 complaints and symptoms,-

take a complete and proper history; perform a physical examination;
and to fully inform Patient 54’. of the Antabuse—alcohul reaction

it she failed to abstain from consuming alcohol while taking the
Antabuse.

23. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated

Section 456.331(1)(q), Florida Statutes, prescribing, dispensing,

administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing a lggend drug,

including any contrclled substance, other than in the course or the

physician’s professional practice. For the purposes of this

paragralzh, it shall be legally presumed that presctibing,

dispensing, administering, mixing, or otherwise preparing legend

drugs, including all controlled substances, inappropriately or in
excessive or inappropriate quantities is not in the best interest:
of the patient and is not in the course of the physician's
professional practice, uithaut regard to his intent.
mm
24. Petitioner realleges and incorparates paragraphs one (1)
through fourteen (14), sixteen (16), nineteen (19) and twenty-two

(22) above, as if fully set forth herein this Count Four.

5

 

 

 

 

25. Respondent aided, assisted, and advised an unlicensed
person to practice medicine in that prior to prescribing Antabusa
for Patient s.F. Respondent delegated and relied entirely on the
evaluation of Patient: SJ‘. by the clinical Director, a person not
licensed by the Agency to practice medicine.

26. Based on the preceding allegations, Respondent violated
Section $58.331{1)(f), Floriéa statutes, aiding, assisting,

pracuring, or advising any unlicensed person to practice medicine

27. Petitioner realleges and incorporates paragraphs one (1)
through fourteen (14), sixteen (16} , nineteen (19) , twentywtwo
(22), and twenty—five (25) , as if fully set forth herein this Count
Five.

28. Respondent inappropriately provided the clinical Director
at Greenfield Center with presignad preseriptions.
29. Based on the foregoing, Respondent violated Section

453.331(1) (aa), Florida Statutes, presigning blank prescription
5w
forms.

license, restriction of the Respondent's practice, imposition at an
administrative fine, issuance of a reprimand, ylacement of the

Respcndsnt on probation, and/oz: any other relief that the Board

deems appropriate .

_,.x442m.M.WM.W~MM.WmmmwW .M

 

 

' ., - swam) this 3/ day 0: 2M , 1995.

Douglas H. Cook, Director

       

Lat ‘ . McPh rson, Jr
ch'ef Medical Attorney

COWSEL FOR AGENCY:
Larry G. McPherson, Jr. F I LE D

AGENCY FOR

Chief Hedica l Attorney

Agency 1 or Hea 1th Care Admini stration H&mggggﬁggéﬂmno’i
1940 North Monroe Street ,
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0792 CUERK Amaﬂm

3373:: Bar #788643 DATE a.” I 21122:
PCP: November 15, 1995

PCP Members: Katims, £chevarria, and Cherney

 

1. Respondent admits that. in his capacity as a licensed physician. he is subject to
the provisions of Chapters 455 and 458. Florida Statutes, and the jurisd iction of the Agency and
ma: Beard.

2‘ Respondent admits that the facts set forth in the Administrative Compiaim. if
proven. woutd constitute violations of Chapter 458. Flon‘da Statutes. as alleged in the
Administrative Complaint.

3. Respondent admits that 1h: S&ipulazcd Disposition in this case is fair. appropriate
and acceptable to Respondent.

TIP . D 05m

1. EQTUQ QQHDLJCT, Rapendem shall not in the future violate Chapters 455,

458 and 893, Fiorida Stamm. or the rules promulgated pursuant thereto. Pn‘or l0 signing this

agreement, Respondent read Chapters 455, 458, and 893. Florida Statutes, and the Rules of the

2. 5mg. 111: Board shall impose an adminisuative ﬁne in the amonm of mo

 

4. 14% A312 BULBﬁ Q&MINAHQE. Within one hundxed eighty (180) days

of the ﬁling of the Final Order,

 

in (he approprialc ﬁeld of expertise. To this end. during the period of probation. Rmpondem
shall comply with the following obligations and requitemems:

A‘ W During me Mod 0f

probatien. Respondent’s liccnse shall be restricted as foiiows:

i. mmm: SQPERVISJQN. Rgspondcnt shall practice only under

the indirect supervision ofa Boardmpproved physician, hereinafter referred to as me 'monimr".
In this regard, Respondcnx shai: allow the monitor access 10 Respondent’s medical mcards

a

aakndar, patient logs or other documents accessmy fur the morﬁtor t0 supervise Respondent as
datain below.

notiﬁcation to the Respondcnl to appear at the next Probation Committee meeting and be heard.
upon a f‘mding by the Probation Commit!” that the Respondent failed to comply with gay of
the terms of this agreement the Commiaee may SUSPEND his license to practice medicine umii
he demonstrates to the Committee that be is in compliance with the terms of probation

ii. Respondent shall appear before the Probation Committee of the
Board of Medicine at the ﬁrst Comma: meeting after probation commences, a! the last meeting

of the Comminac preceding scheduied termination of the probation. and at such other times as

and place of the Committee meeting wherea: Respondent’s appearance is required. Failum of

Respondent to appear as requested or directed. absent an uncrgeucy or excused condiﬂon, shall

 

 

 

be considcred : violation of the mm: of this Agrccmcnt, and shat! subject the Rtspondcm m
disciplinary action.

iii. W Rcspowcntshalicompictethccoursc.

”Quality Medics; Record Keeping for Health Care Professionals.‘

sponsored by the Flarida

Medical Association and 1h: University of South Florida. or a Boardagpmved cquivalenl, within

one year of the date of the Final Order,

iv. Respondent shail be tcsponsibic for ensuring that the monitor

submits all required reports.

C. P 18 TH MO P
The Monitor shall:

i. Review twenty ﬁve percent (25%) of Respondent’s active patient

records a! least once a momh. {or the purpose of ascenaining the appropriattncss of the

Respondent‘s prescribing 1nd delegations of duties to inferiors. The monitor shali go {o

Respondent‘s ofﬁce once cvcry month and shall review Respondent’s miendar or patient log and

shall select the records to be revicwad.

ii. Maimain contact with the Respondcm on a frequency of at lens:

once per month. In an: event {hat the monitor is not timely contacted by Respondent. then the
monitor shaii immediately leper: this fact in writing to the Board.
iii. Submit reports on a quancrly basis. in afﬁdavit form. which shall
include:
a) 'A brief statement: of why Respondent is on probation!

b) A description of Rcspondem’s practice (type and composition).

Aw”.,N~M~.§,an.ﬂ.. Mnmvmmwmm.m,Mwm.Mm,“mmmmm-m‘umnmm

c) A statement addressmg Respondent'
Lemxs of probation.

s compliance with the

monitor pursuant [0 subsccaion iii. above.

iv. Repon inuncdiately to the Beam any violations by the Respondent ofChapzcrs
‘: 455 or 458. Florida Statutes, and the mks pmmuigatcd thereto.

v. Respondent‘s monitar shall appear before the Pxobation Committee at the ﬁrst

as directed by m: Committee. It shall be Respondent's rcsponsibility to ensure the appearance

of his mower to appear as requested or directed. If the approved monitor fails to appear as

requested or directed by the Probation Cumin“, abscm an emergency or excused condition,

: the Respondent shall immediately cease practicing medicine until such time as the approved

monitor or alternate monitor appears before the Probation Committee.

,_ , _ u;- , “w y _h,_.Wm.VWNWWWXMVzswmm-mmumMM

   

A brief mm of why Raspendcut is on probation.

ii. A description of practice location.
iii. A description of current practice (type and composition).

iv. A brief statement of compliance with probationary terms;

v. A description of the mlazionship with the monitoring physician.
vi. A statement advising the Board of any problems which have amen.
vii. A statement addressing compliance with any restrictions or requiremcms

imposed.
E. SI‘AﬁDm PRQﬂSIQmﬁ. Respondent's probation shall be governed
by the attached

'Smndard Terms Applicabk l0 Consent Agreements." Exhibit
hmarporated as if fully set forth herein.

7. It is expressly understood that this Ammam is subject to the approval of the

Board and the Agemy. In this regatd‘

 

herein.

:1. Upon the Board’s adoption of this Agreemem, Respondent expressly waives all

further procedural! steps, and cxprcssly waives all rights to seek judicial review of or to
otherwise challenge or causes: the validity of the: Agreement and the Final Order of the Board
incorporating said Agmcmcm.

12. Upon the Board's adoption of this Agreement,

the parties hcreby agree mat with

, should {his joint Agraemcm
not be accepted by the Board. i1 is agreed that presentation to and considctation of this

Agmuncm and other documents and matters by the Beam shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice

